---
citekey: "[@1982marr]"
aliases:
  - Understanding Complex Information-Processing Systems
  - Marr, 1982
  - Marr (1982)
tags:
  - literature-note
title: Chapter | Understanding Complex Information-Processing Systems
year: 1982
permalink: 
publish: "true"
date: 2022-10-02
lastmod: 2024-08-16T13:12:40-07:00
---
>Marr, D. (1982). _Vision: A Computational Investigation into the Human Representation and Processing of Visual Information_. The MIT Press. [https://doi.org/10.7551/mitpress/9780262514620.001.0001](https://doi.org/10.7551/mitpress/9780262514620.001.0001)

---
# Key terms

- **Formal scheme** = set of symbols with rules for putting them together
- **Representation** = **formal scheme** for capturing some aspect of reality, along with rules that specify how the scheme is applied to any particular entity
- **Description** = the symbolic result of using a **representation** to describe a given entity

---
# Reading notes

## Representation and description
- [[Representation is describing some aspect of reality with a useful symbol]]
- Representation makes specific information explicit and other information "background," which determines how easily different operations can be performed on that information.

## The three levels

^5ab420

1. **Computational theory:** Fundamental theory about *what* the system is doing and *why*; the resulting operation is defined by **constraints**, or rules, that appropriate for the particular goal.
2. **Representation and algorithm:** Deciding a representation to implement the process and an algorithm to accomplish the transformation.
3. **Hardware implementation:** How the algorithm is physically "realized."

## Importance of computational theory

- An algorithm is better understood by its underlying goals than its mechanism or physical implementation. 
- Without the distinction between *what* a program does and *how* the tasks are performed, algorithms can only be tested by running the program.