---
citekey: 1995egan
aliases:
  - 
tags:
  - literature-note
title: journalArticle | Computation and Content
year: 1995
permalink: https://www.jstor.org/stable/2185977
publish: 
date: 2024-09-10
lastmod: 2024-10-10T13:32:06-04:00
---
> Egan, F. (1995). Computation and Content. _The Philosophical Review_, _104_(2), 181–203. [https://doi.org/10.2307/2185977](https://doi.org/10.2307/2185977)

---

# Summary

> [!Abstract]
>.


---

# Atomic notes

---

# Key terms

- **Computationalism** = the view that human cognitive processes are a type of information processing, which is implemented in symbol-manipulating systems.
	- **Formality condition** = the requirement that computational processes only access the formal, or *non-semantic* properties of the representations they are defined over.
		- Related: [[The semantic aspects of a message are irrelevant for reproducing it, after Hasselman]]
- **Intentional theory** = a theory is *intentional* if representational content plays an individuating or taxonomizing role in the theory.
- **Cognitive function** = “a function whose arguments and values are epistemically related, such that the outputs of the computation can be seen as rational or cogent given the inputs.”
- **Broad content** = semantic content that is defined by what the symbols stand for, hence not shared by physically identical subjects in significantly different environments.
- **Narrow content** = semantic content defined in terms of intrinsic properties of the system, which can be ascribed meaning by a psychological theory; “content that supervenes on intrinsic physical states of the object.”

---

# Selected concepts and passages

---
# Reading notes

- **Marr’s tri-level theory is a *function-theoretic* description:** 
	- Related: [[Information-processing systems are understood at knowledge, algorithm, and physical implementation levels]]

## The explanatory role of content

- **Mathematical characterizations of computational mechanisms are essential, intentional characterizations are relative:** “An intentional characterization of a computational mechanism involves an implicit relativization to the context in which the mechanism is normally embedded. … The intentional characterization is not essential, since in some circumstances it would not apply.”
	- #concept-question Feels like this is begging the question? What is a “circumstance”?


## The ascription of content

> Physical duplicates are computational duplicates.

- Mathematical content is a type of narrow content, since it is the same across identical physical systems.
## Computational psychology and naturalistic psychology

