---
tags:
  - fleeting-note
lastmod: 2024-02-28T10:33:38-08:00
---
Draft for [[insomnia]] writing.

Outline of main ideas:
- Not knowing how to handle myself when having insomnia, losing sense of autonomy; deeply humbling feeling of being out of control if I cannot engage in such an essential human need as sleep.
	- Despite all the sleep hygiene! But the debauchery (stimulant consumption) never made a difference, so why be good?
	- The protective practices makes me more aware, which makes the betrayal even sharper. Maybe I should just roll with the punches, etc.
	- Betrayal of my body that I’ve gotten used to.
- A brief history of my insomnia in college. Psychosomatic and physiological.
	- Absurd characters. I had two friends who had, very recently in their lives, practiced sleeping every other night. One liked the unhinged feeling, loosening it gave him.
- The inertia of being longer awake, more difficult to sleep.
- Rarely feeling altogether used to my own mind. Insomnia being just one mind-altering substance. And I won’t be for a while, due to indefinite antidepressant use. 
	- Not knowing what it feels like to not have something go wrong. I am always too tired, too unmotivated, too dialed in, mind is drawing too many blanks.
- Interesting vs. uninteresting lives of people with insomnia.
	- Slightly different from being merely exemplary, Weil gives a comforting cosmology of affliction. It is nice to consider that my suffering has meaning.
- Maybe I have insomnia because the world is too large, I need to either cut it down or give myself more time to take it in. A failure of my own memory consolidation
- Stolen time, fear 

Outline of sections:
- Journalistic entry, physical experience
- Personal history, what I did on those insomniac nights
- Greater social contexts; headaches, cognitive suffering—difference between these guys and my personal history is that I was unable to produce
- Speculations on my own cognition
	- Two friends who slept every other night, one who liked the loosening.
- Spring 2023 culmination. My body feels fragile now, relationship with the mind is very fraught.

---

Two nights ago, I forgot how to sleep. It took an hour for me to admit that unconsciousness was not coming. Remembering that I should relocate so as to not associate my bed with sleeplessness—one of those palliative “sleep hygiene” recommendations that seems to arise from some entity that has never experienced something as destabilizing as human exhaustion—and do a calming activity until I felt ready to bargain with falling asleep again, I slid onto the floor with a book. What a wonderful surprise, I told myself, to have stolen this time to read.

Three hundred pages later, I felt ready to flirt again with unconsciousness and crawled obediently back into bed. I was utterly rejected. As the hours dragged by, I felt my curled body become increasingly dense, as if I was about to sink through the mattress entirely and leave a permanent imprint in the earth below. If the night did not end, then I would be released from the obligation to ever move again.

The next day I felt like shit.

Insomnia is incredibly destabilizing. It stems from a fundamental incompatibility between body and mind, although which side has betrayed the other is unclear. To be unable to partake in such an essential human need as rest is dehumanizing; the U.S. military has certainly recognized this by employing sleep deprivation as a torture tactic.