---
tags:
  - fleeting-note
date: 2024-08-16 16:11
lastmod: 2024-08-16T16:12:25-07:00
---
> Wolpert, D. H., & Kinney, D. B. (2024). A Stochastic Model of Mathematics and Science. _Foundations of Physics_, _54_(2), 1–67. [https://doi.org/10.1007/s10701-024-00755-9](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10701-024-00755-9)

---
# Summary

The SMS framework is applied to establish the benefit of two heuristics that are not compatible with [[Probabilistic reasoning|Bayesian epistemology]]: stronger belief in a hypothesis with multiple lines of reasoning, and [[Abduction is going from a believed conclusion to requirements for the conclusion to be true, after Peirce|abductive inference]].

Under this framework, an individual scientist is a dependent projection of the physical universe.

---
# Atomic notes

- [[Abstract reasoning in science is normatively constrained by the physical universe, while in math it is not]]
	- Scientists are embedded, mathematicians are not
- [[Mathematical ground truth is the set of answers given by a future community of mathematicians]]

---
# Key terms

- **Stochastic mathematical system (SMS)** = “stochastic processes that generate pairs of questions and associated answers, with no explicit referents.”
	- **Referent** = the thing being signified in a “reference” relationship between symbol and object.
- **[[Abduction is going from a believed conclusion to requirements for the conclusion to be true, after Peirce|Abduction]]** = using the explanatory power of a claim to infer its probability of being correct.

Mathematical universe hypothesis, ontic structural realists

---
# Reading notes

## Motivation

- Mathematicians and scientists acquire knowledge by mapping a set of “almost inconvertibly true” propositions to beliefs about propositions that are not yet settled.
- As the mathematician or scientist conducts research, the set of *established facts* and the set of *beliefs* evolves over time. Further, their *reasoning* about questions they investigate and explanations they provide is a *stochastic process*.
- Real mathematicians and scientists are not limited to a single formal system, such as Bayesian probabilistic reasoning, when forming the propositions they are investigating $\to$ both “settled facts” and “unsettled propositions” are represented as *question-answer pairs* without a specified formal system.

>[!question] #concept-question What are the differences in formalizing “established facts,” “propositions they are investigating,” and “set of beliefs about non-settled facts”?

### Assumptions

- “Mathematicians is what mathematicians do.” When using the SMS model to represent mathematics itself, this implies that there is no unique answer to a mathematical question; instead, there is a “non-degenerate objective distribution over possible answers.”

>[!question] #concept-question What is a non-degenerate distribution (support of the same dimension)? How is it related to the concept of an isomorphism for non-degenerate functions?

- The physical universe is a mathematical object.
- sequences of claims are iteratively generated by a discrete stochastic process
## Stochastic mathematical systems

### Model fundamentals

- Settled facts and unsettled propositions are represented as question-answer pairs, which are called **claims**. 
- The evolution of distributions over question-answer pairs is modeled using a **stochastic mathematical system (SMS)**, which generates successive sets of question-answer pairs.

>[!example] Definition: Questions, answers, claim (p. 7)
>- Let $Q, V$ be arbitrary sets. An element $q \in Q$ is a **question**, and an element $v \in V$ is an **answer**. 
>- A **claim** is an arbitrary pair in $C = \{(q, v) \ : \ q \in Q, \ v \in V \}$. A **claim vector** is a finite *sequence* of claims. A **claim set** $\hat C$ is a finite *unordered set* of claims.

>[!example] Definition: Stochastic mathematical system, step (p. 7)
>A **stochastic mathematical system (SMS)** $\phi$ is a pair $(\mathcal C, X)$, where $\mathcal C = (\Omega, \Sigma, P)$ is a claim vector probability space and $X: \mathbb Z^+ \times \Omega \to C^*$ is a measurable function that takes positive integers and maps them to a sequence of random variables (i.e., measurable functions) in the **set of all claim vectors** $C^*$. Note that the SMS output is a claim set.
>
>The **step** of the SMS is the integer argument of $X$.


>[!question] #concept-question Explicitly, what are the inputs and outputs?

### Important distributions

- Agents’ epistemic positions—that is, belief in possible answers to a given question—are represented as the distribution over possible answers [[Conditional probability and Bayes' theorem|conditioned]] on their associated questions and a particular set of established claims.
	- Notice that for established facts, the conditional probably of the answer given the question is one.

>[!example] Definition: Response distribution, sure (p. 10)
>For an SMS $\phi$, step $n$, question $q$, and claim set $\hat C$ where $P^n(q, \hat C) \neq 0$, the associated **response distribution** is the the map that sends any $v \in V$ to the value
>$$
>P^n(v \ | \ q, \hat C) = \frac{P^n((q,v), \ \hat C)}{P^n(p, \ \hat C)}.
>$$
>In plain English, given a question $q$ and a particular SMS that produces a claim set that contains $\hat C$ at step $n$, the response distribution is a distribution over the set of possible answers $\{ v \in V\} \subset C^*$ for $q$, which are produced by that SMS in response to $q$ at step $n$.
> 
>The output value $P^n(v \ | \ q, \hat C)$ is **sure** if and only if it is a delta function about some answer $v$.

>[!question] #concept-question To clarify: the SMS does not produce the response distribution itself?


## Calibration

- The full definition of **calibration** is different from simply requiring minimal divergence because calibration requires that the answers of the individual are, on average, very close to the answers from a ground truth “oracle.”

### Mathematics

- The ground truth oracle is interpreted as the answers given by a far-future community of mathematicians, and the universe-SMS $\phi_1$ is the process that all mathematicians over all time ask and answer questions. 
- A mathematician-SMS $\phi_2$ answers questions correctly to the extent that the answers are sampled from a response distribution that is *minimally divergent* from the limit response distribution of $\phi_1$, where both response distributions are conditioned on the same claim set.
	- *Asking “what is the response to this question?” is operationally the same as asking “what is the answer that an oracle would give to this question?”.*

### Science

- The oracle is interpreted as the experimental outcomes generated by the physical universe. A simple *deterministic* universe is modeled by a universe-SMS $\phi_1$ such that the response distribution over all answers to any question and any prior claim set is **sure**.
- A scientist-SMS $\phi_2$ generates cognitive events about some physical observations (i.e., question-answer pairs); in fact, we can interpret the response distribution as *patterns in the physical brain*.
- In contrast to the independent models in the mathematics case, the scientist-SMS is **embedded** in a universe-SMS. This means that the response distribution for $\phi_2$ is given by a distribution over universe states that “project down” to the scientist’s brain patterns (see p. 21 for examples).
	- *The claim set $\hat C_2$ is “physical property of the scientist’s own brain, corresponding to their mental perception of the outcomes of chains of experiments or observations they have made.”*

