---
tags:
  - fleeting-note
  - PHYS-107
lastmod: 2024-01-04T14:15:58-08:00
---

# Overview

- Introduction, Eratosthenes
- Earth’s orbital motion, analemmas
- Ancient way-finding
- The problem of longitudes & Harrison’s clock

---
# Eratosthenes (276-194 BCE)

- Ancients agreed with spherical earth – plenty of evidence!
- Computed size of the Earth to 2% accuracy
	- Compute using the angle of the sun & surface distance from position when Sun is directly overhead.

---
# Seasons: Where is the sun?

- Stellar days
	- Solar day: how often does Sun pass overhead? (approximately 365.2425)
	- Stellar day: how many times does another star pass overhead?
- Earth has axial tilt of 20 degrees
	- How long is an individual in the sunlight (i.e., how long is the day)?
	- Axial tilt is responsible for seasons (no relation to distance from the sun)
- Local noon
	- Sun will be in the north in Aus., south for Sea.
	- Will be the “same” for same north/south position

---
# Analemma

- Taking a photo of the sun from a fixed location over a year – produces a figure 8!
	- Analemma: sometimes the Earth’s rotation is early/late
- Further, if Earth’s rotation was perfectly circular, would see a perfect figure 8
	- **Perihelion** = when Earth is closer to the sun (coincidentally, N. hemisphere winter)
		- “Low,” Earth “falls” and goes faster
	- **Aphelion** = Earth furthest from sun, Earth goes slower
- Length of the day varies throughout the year
- Mars analemma has a different shape!
- Analemma can also be created by shadow of a fixed object, marked at same time every day

---
# What time is it? 3 ways

- Local apparent solar noon = when the sun is at zenith (highest); definition used for millennia
	- Problem: length of day is not constant
- Local mean solar noon = circular orbit, no tilt, constant date length
- Analemma is a correction from apparent to mean
- Local stellar noon = how long it takes star to come overhead
	- Use transit telescope, can only point N/S
	- Stars are in different location each night (slightly displaced) because of the one extra day – 366 stellar days (4 mins shorter than solar day)
	- Can also be used to time clocks due to consistency

---
# Notes

- TA interested in info theory?