---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2023-12-31T11:41:06-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20231231-bb-program-week-1|Week 1: Hit the Ground Running]]
>**Intention:** Establish new baseline eating and behavior habit patterns. Remove any stimulus that’s not helpful and create the optimal recovery environment within the life I already live.
>
>**Call theme:** Building Your Recovery Protocol + Group Coaching
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Define and practice a recovery protocol daily.
>2. Pick eating habits (how to eat enough and consistently) and stick to it as much as possible.
>3. Increase friction between myself and binging.
>4. Clean up environmental triggers (scale, social media, pause diet content, put away triggering items).

> What are my weekly goals?

1. Be relapse-free for the majority of the days in the week.
2. Wake up at or before 9:00 AM each day, again.
3. Draft all my essay responses for [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]].

> Why are my weekly goals important to me *today*?

1. This is a big step in shifting my identity away from bulimia: having more “normal” days than “abnormal.” For today in particular, this goal is important to me because it means I don’t need to go through the difficulty of relapse today, and I can feel happy with how I spent my time.
2. For the past two days that I’ve been successful that is (the first time doing so, multiple days in a row), I’ve been really happy with the feeling of the routine. I enjoy the purity of time in the morning. I would like to keep having this feeling.
3. I’m starting to feel stressed about the looming deadline. I don’t want to, nor do I need to feel anxious. I know I am excited about this opportunity and I want to let that excitement shine in my application.

> How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

1. I need to be prepared for the times I am most likely to relapse:
	1. **When I feel the need to procrastinate with my work.** Pause. Name the feeling; even speak it out loud. Stand up and move around to physically reset. Do not eat unless absolutely certain I will not binge to procrastinate more. Know that, actually, it’s okay to procrastinate a bit, because we can procrastinate *productively*! I can read, walk while listening to a recovery podcast, or fiddle around with my notes and website some more.
	2. **When Mom makes dinner early in the evening and when she leaves for work.** This is *not* the freedom to binge and purge as I please because I have no one watching over me; I am watching over myself. I do not win anything by relapsing. Instead, I can keep up the new, positive patterns that I have been developing in the last two days. *I am capable of this.* Continue to pause instead of seeking out distractions or other forms of stimulation. Most importantly, *do not eat the food just because it is there.*
	3. **When I am feeling FOMO over staying home for NYE.** The reason I am not going out is because I am prioritizing recovery, so it does not make sense to relapse now. I need to remember that *I am not losing anything if I wake up tomorrow better than the day I was before*. If I go out and get wasted, I will be nonfunctional for the entire next day. I would rather keep that time! Most importantly, binging and purging will not relieve the feeling of FOMO, and ironically will lead me to miss even more of life in the future! 
2. Wind down for bed before 12 AM (let myself be tired). Keep my alarm set for tomorrow morning at 8:00 AM. Not going out, even though it is New Year’s Eve; I am choosing now to start the new year feeling healthy and good about myself.
3. I need to not let feelings of anxiety or desperation distract me from writing. I will remember that as long as I develop my ideas, the words will follow. I need to be patient and not force myself into frustration. In terms of actions, I need to plan my ideas ahead of time so I don’t get stuck with words. I need to, again, *patiently* use strategies to overcome blocks instead of forcing through them, like free-writing. It will be easier to let the words out first and rewrite/edit later.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Complete my weekly review page: [[20231231-bb-program-week-1|Week 1: Hit the Ground Running]]
- [ ] Outline and brainstorm a research proposal for [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]]
	- [ ] Make a physical “mind map”

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [x] Fix literature note titles
- [ ] Process and review [[2020-labatut-when-we-cease-to-understand-the-world]]
	- [ ] Go through noted passages
- [ ] Tend to some of my newly planted notes: [[Writing]], [[Metaphor]], [[Quotes to live by]]
- [ ] Pick up library book

## Future file

[[2023-12-27]]
- [ ] Set up UW NetID
- [ ] Start processing notes from [[2009-mitchell-complexity-a-guided-tour]]

[[2023-12-26]]
- [ ] Schedule an appointment with Beyond Barnard for application review
- [ ] Make a small coding project to put on application resume

[[2023-12-25]]
- [ ] Schedule phone calls with friends
- [ ] Mend socks
- [ ] Revise and import planners from old vault
- [ ] Finish reading *Models of the Mind*

[[2023-12-24]]
- [ ] Read emails from Russ Warrick

---
# Notes

- New naming conventions for literature and raw notes:
	- Raw notes: RAW - date read - title
	- Literature notes: year published - author/source - title

---
# Media log
