---
tags:
  - daily-note
---
# Daily journal

[[20231223-bb-program-week-0|Week 0: Laying the Foundation]]

> What are my weekly goals?

1. Have at least two days in a row relapse-free.
2. Wake up at 9 AM at the latest each day.
3. Finish the [[2018-santa-fe-institute-introduction-to-complexity]] short answer questions.

> Why are my weekly goals important to me *today*?

1. Maintaining a streak, no matter how small, will take my relapse-free days from an exception to something that I can understand as a new normal. I really want to hit this goal because I have been close for so long, it would be a break-through!
2. I want to start the day feeling good and excited about what will happen. A low mood won’t cure itself; this is a gentle way to start being proactive. Also, seeing more of the daylight!
3. This is very intellectually exciting to me, and I believe I can be successful with this opportunity.

> How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

1. I need to adopt the mindset that urges are not something to be afraid of because they do not signal an inevitable behavior. If they lasted forever, I would have to learn to cope with living in spite of it all, right? For action items, I will need to eat consistently throughout the day and possibly later at night than I would like, and not just when I feel ravenous. We are having family dinner tonight at 4:30 PM, which makes me nervous, but I can just eat a smaller meal – this will actually be a tool for my success!
2. I will wind down for bed at a reasonable hour. I will go through a night routine, even though I will have been in the house all day.
3. My “work time” after this will be spent on the application; all my “To do” tasks are oriented towards it.

> Themed journal question: How does the future recovered me think, act, and feel?

- My mind is not preoccupied with food! I do not look at others’ plates or think about their eating habits. I feel comfortable making plans that involve food, even if they fall outside of my regular eating patterns.
- Choices about food do not send me into a panic.
- I accept that binge urges will be inevitable, and I greet them with open arms. They are familiar to me, so I know exactly how to respond.
- I am cheerful and present in all my interactions with others. My security brings joy to a room, even if I am not the most bubbly. I am a valuable contributor to any conversation.
- Even when I am not at the center of attention, I do not feel left out or like a failure. Me going my own way will actually attract others to me.
- I feel like the main character of my life.
- I am patient and generous with everyone, particularly my parents.


---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Finish weekly and daily journals
- [ ] Draft application for [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]]; goal is to have something to show Dr. Lindsay as soon as possible
	- [ ] Take notes on ongoing research
		- [ ] Read workshop reports from [Foundations of Intelligence](https://intelligence.santafe.edu/) project
		- [ ] Process [[2022-santa-fe-institute-embodied-situated-and-grounded-intelligence]]
	- [x] Take notes on past projects
	- [ ] Start a new project for the resume

----
# Menu

## Today

> What other things can I do today that are less important?

- [x] Look into earthquake?
- [x] Laundry
- [x] Update media log from last night
- [x] Put holds on library books
- [x] Make a note of top books to read
- [ ] Check Galileo chat

## Future file

- [ ] Send Rex postcard
- [ ] Respond to Ken Block with *Klara and the Sun* review
- [ ] Get a Dirt subscription?
- [ ] Read Russ Warrick emails
- [ ] Respond to Maeve – 2009 pictures, 9/11 book


---
# Notes

- Waiting on UW prof signatures for course registration, considering the “physics for non-majors” type course – listed on the [QuantumX](https://www.quantumx.washington.edu/#about) website!
- Super anxious on post-lunch walk, probably about eating dinner with family.
- Things to look into based on looking at past projects:
	- Assembly calculus
	- Genetic algorithms
	- GFlowNets from Yoshua Benigo

---
# Media log

[Age, Sex, Location](https://longreads.com/2023/03/14/age-sex-location/) | Kira Homsher | Personal essay

>Online, people are more generous with their time and less precious about their romantic and emotional entanglements. Just refresh: There will always be someone new

>By the time I went to college, all the former mystique of the internet had been subsumed into the tedious landscape of social media. Anonymity was no longer the selling point — it was all about developing an online brand, a persona other people would find desirable, entertaining, original, or infectious

>I’ve been cured of my curiosity through sheer saturation. There is so little I want to know about other people.

- Author explains how her perceptions of others were developed on the pre-social media internet.
- Inherent ephemerality to using online profiles that are detached from the physical identity; self can easily shed, while others are collected and discarded. Anonymity is key!
- In the age of social media, online presence is about personal branding and hyperidentification.
- **Takeaway:** The role of identities online has changed over time. The sort of growth and relationships that occurred before may no longer be possible in the age of social media.

[Bad Waitress](https://dirt.fyi/article/2023/06/bad-waitress) | Becca Schuh | Personal essay

>I suspect it’s easier to teach a waitress to be a writer than an intellectual to be a waiter.

>It has not made me a better writer. It’s made me lazy. It’s made me love money. It’s made me see that life is more than writing, it’s lessened my chokehold on dedication. I no longer identify as an ambitious person. I identify as a person who wants to make the life that they can scrape together as comfortable as possible.

>Everything is so much simpler than I imagined it was. I thought I was doing an easy job, but everything is an easy job when you know the system. Other professions weren’t magic. They were systems too.

- Working as a server has been a critical part of the author’s development. The author credits serving with enabling her lifestyle as a young adult, and later writer. However, she concludes by stating that part of her life is over.
- The author discusses personal development and anecdotes from serving, from her first job at IHOP to her move to NYC to “make it” in the city.
- The author used to identify heavily with being a server and find these anecdotes meaningful; now, they blend into one another in apathy. However, she continues to draw a distinction between server life and being a “normal person.”
- **Takeaway:** Serving is a formative experience that opens doors for other, less sustainable careers, but its difficulty and impact is perhaps impossible to understand for those without experience.

[What is Culture? Part 3: Arbitrariness](https://culture.ghost.io/wic3/) | W. David Marx | Essay
[[2023-marx-what-is-culture-part-3-arbitrariness]]

[Crying in Luke’s Lobster](https://dirt.fyi/article/2023/09/crying-in-lukes-lobster) | Bryan Woods | Personal Essay
- The author reflects on how he formerly suppressed memories and emotions, but now goes to therapy and cries frequently. 
- The essay delves into a second-person narrative of going to the Luke’s Lobster in Grand Central Station for emotional release.
- **Takeaway:** The mundane details of life are worth writing an essay about, because they can be largely relatable.

[Your Mind’s in the Hands of Everything](https://harpers.org/archive/2023/12/philip-roth-newark-your-minds-in-the-hands-of-everything/) | Hannah Gold | Personal essay

>I also formulated these questions of inheritance as a problem of influence. I can neither applaud nor dismiss the effects that Roth has had on my writing and on my life, and the fictional projections that his work helped set in motion long ago. So where did that leave me?

>These are Roth’s people, I thought while surveying the crowd, the ones who love books and go around shouting about how nobody believes books matter anymore. The embattled, the aggrieved, the non–Nobel Prize winners.

>This is, I suppose, my own ill-advised defense of literature, or at least my diagnosis of its challenges: that it is not moral instruction, nor a basic need akin to shelter and food, but rather a need like friends, adversaries, and love. Its function is social, even when we’re alone with it; it works only insofar as we can live with it, become vulnerable to it, or resist it.

>The festivities did not convince me that the weekend’s method of collective assessment and affirmation could chug along much longer—nor that a centennial celebration could predict the direction in which a reputation is headed. Roth is best sought in fits of astonishment on a subway bench or bed, “methinking methoughts.”

- The author reflects on reading Philip Roth in the present social climate, and describes her experience attending the Philip Roth Unbound festival in Newark.
- Gold notes Roth’s complicated legacy given his misogynistic writing, amplified by the allegations of sexual assault against his biographer.
- Gold believes Roth’s novels were key to her intellectual development. She tries to untangle her feelings about this.
- At the festival, Gold attends several live readings from Roth’s works. She notes that the format seems out of place, like his words were never meant to be spoken aloud to an audience, but consumed intimately.
- Gold describes the fandom-ish behavior of other Rothian academics in attendance.
- Gold attends several panels discussing Roth’s legacy. Many other attendees complain of the censorship in the name of cultural sensitivity in today’s mainstream publishing, including the use of sensitivity readers from marginalized groups to approve manuscripts.
- **Takeaway:** In examining the legacy of a complicated creator, we cannot simply force the issues with the work to reflect the creator’s shortcomings. In reality, the “embarrassment” and consequences are borne by those impacted in the first place.

[I tried to forget my whole life. I’m glad I failed.](https://longreads.com/2023/07/06/autistic-at-35-an-adult-autism-diagnosis/) | John Paul Scotto | Personal essay
- The author reflects on difficulties of growing up, and later receiving an adult autism diagnosis.

Percy Jackson and the Olympians | Disney+ | TV show
- Finished first episode and watched part of second.
