---
tags:
  - daily-note
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20231223-bb-program-week-0|Week 0: Laying the Foundation]]
>Giving myself the best chance of success by making (small and big) tweaks to my life and mindset.

> What are my weekly goals?

1. Have at least two days in a row relapse-free.
2. Wake up at 9 AM at the latest each day.
3. Finish the [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]] short answer questions.

> Why are my weekly goals important to me *today*?

1. A lot of reasons for this one:
	1. I want to have a good streak going for the dinner with family friends (Lauren, Melody, TJ). I don’t want to feel anxious about food at this event or feel triggered to relapse after. This will be a lot easier if I have made some progress in breaking the habit of binging in the previous days.
	2. I am finally excited about doing research and my future, and I want to spend time reading instead of binging. I also just have so many other things I *rationally* want to do more (again, mostly reading various things), and a binge cycle will waste most of the day!
	3. I’ve filled up my schedule to “start being a real person” in the first few months of 2024, and the only way I’ll keep up is if I don’t relapse.
	4. I am about to start the recovery group coaching program, and I will have to be 100% committed to recovery then (if not entirely mentally, at least behaviorally). Taking actions toward recovery will be difficult no matter when I begin, so it does not make sense to keep purging and put it off.
2. Maximizing daylight seems to improve my mental health. I loved walking in the sun today.
3. This opportunity is extremely exciting to me, and I want to set up application up for as much success as possible.

> How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

1. I need to be honest with myself about my intentions behind each behavior. For example, I can’t start eating something I know will trigger me to binge (such as almonds, due to their high calories) just because “I’ll only have a little.” Another example is that I just went to the closet where my parents have been hiding food, just to look at it; there was no reason for me to do that! Yet another example is constantly checking to clock to keep track of when the grocery store closes. Second, I need to be gentle about myself regarding body image and sit with the discomfort of fullness. Finally, I need to be extremely careful and deliberate with my actions in the evening, as that is the time I am most likely to relapse. I accept that I may not be able to sleep well in order to make it through the night, but that is only because I am adjusting, and things will eventually be easier.
2. For waking up early tomorrow, I need to wind down at an appropriate hour today. I should be in bed by midnight. I will make going to sleep (instead of binging) exciting by letting myself read books that I am excited about and are not too difficult to parse.
3. Don’t get too sidetracked with other activities (although, considering goal 1, remember to be gentle and take breaks to limit frustration and willpower drain). 

> Themed journal question: How can I make recovery a daily, practical part of my life?

- Make sure my physical and emotional needs are met.
	- Physical: taking medication, eating at a satisfying quantity and frequency, making sure my nutritional goals are met, moving enough during the day, waking up and sleeping at the same time.
	- Emotional: doing something mentally stimulating or exciting, having meaningful social interactions, spending time outdoors.
- Participate fully in all recovery program activities to the best of my ability, completing check-ins and being active in discussion meetings.
- Parallel to eating disorder recovery, being honest in all other areas of my life (following model of addiction recovery).
- Allowing the recovery process to fade into the background and expanding my life activities beyond recovery.
- Develop an intentional routine to make choices toward recovery more automatic:
	- Follow the daily journaling prompts during my recovery coaching program, and plan each day so that there is nothing up in the air when it comes to food-related behaviors.
	- Have a regular morning and night routine that does not center food.
	- Make sure my eating schedule is intentional and planned.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] Work on [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]] essay questions
	- [ ] Read first workshop report from [Foundations of Intelligence](https://intelligence.santafe.edu/) project
	- [ ] Finish processing [[2022-santa-fe-institute-embodied-situated-and-grounded-intelligence]]
- [x] Pay UW course invoice

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [x] Check Galileo chat
- [x] Subscribe to new podcasts on Light phone
- [ ] Mail NYC binchie secret snowflake gift

## Future file

- [x] Donate books to nearby “Little Free Library”
- [ ] Schedule an appointment with Beyond Barnard for application review
- [ ] Make a small coding project to put on application resume

[[2023-12-25]]
- [ ] Schedule phone calls with friends
- [ ] Mend socks
- [ ] Revise and import planners from old vault
- [ ] Finish reading *Models of the Mind*

[[2023-12-24]]
- [ ] Respond to Ken Block email and review *Klara and the Sun*
- [ ] Send Rex a postcard
- [ ] Get a Dirt subscription
- [ ] Read emails from Russ Warrick

---
# Notes

---
# Media log

[[isolt-swanns-way|Swann's Way]] | Marcel Proust | Book
- Finished the “Swann in Love” section. Definitely powered through those 100 pages, but the quality of work makes me excited for a reread. Perhaps I should have noted standout passages? But almost every paragraph was striking to me.
- Loved the descriptions of social dynamics at the party; Proust is peeling back layers of interactions that most can only perceive purely intuitively (kind of like declarative and non-declarative memory in [[Squire's taxonomy of long-term memory]]; indeed, memory is just experience. Exactly like, then!).
- Some annotations by the previous owner were insightful. Again, maybe should have made my own notes? I wish I had someone to discuss this with, I feel like I do not have any reason to reflect or analyze because I’m not explicitly learning any facts.
- Is it worth making a note and processing the excerpts?

Worst Bulimia Moments with Marcus Kain | Binge Breakers | Podcast
- Jacqueline’s worst moments involved binging around food times. She also had an experience of overhearing someone purging at a college dining hall; this struck me the first time I listened too, because the overwhelming amount of food and food waste in college definitely enabled my bulimia.
- Marcus’s worst moments were binging on McDonald’s after a late shift at work, then having to go home to his wife, who was waiting for him with a plate of food.
- My own worst moments are very painful to reflect on:
	- The numerous occasions of digging out of the trash. At first, again, it was easy in college dorms because the trash was always overflowing with wasted food, and walking around the hallways was a normal activity. However, ensuring that I had a place to purge was very difficult; I would always purge in a trash bag, and carry that around with me to find an empty bathroom. Otherwise, I had to make excuses for my roommate to not come back to the dorm.
	- Purging right before a final exam in the dorms and arriving late.
	- Knowing that security was watching me dig out of trash in my sophomore year building, and doing it anyway. Being confronted and then reported to the college. Making up the fact that I had OCD in the following meeting, and getting away with it.
	- All the times I was binging in my single room while my roommates’ friends partied in the adjacent living room.
	- Purging in the kitchen while Thomas was sleeping in my bed.
	- Making random excuses to not see Thomas because I was busy binging.
	- Purging in my single room, even though my roommates could certainly hear me from their room and praying they were asleep.
	- Spending over $1500 on binge food in a single month. Being recognized by all the nearby grocery employees, but them not saying anything.
	- Leaving a vomit-covered towel and toilet seat out in the open and Mom finding it. Watching Mom cry in the living room after.
	- Watching Mom cry in front of me.