---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2023-12-28T17:51:15-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20231223-bb-program-week-0|Week 0: Laying the Foundation]]
>Giving myself the best chance of success by making (small and big) tweaks to my life and mindset.

> What are my weekly goals?

1. Have at least two days in a row relapse-free.
2. Wake up at 9 AM at the latest each day.
3. Finish the [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]] short answer questions.

> Why are my weekly goals important to me *today*?

1. I’ve relapsed for the past two nights and am falling back into unhealthy habits. I think this began when I started working *all day* because of my hyperfixation, letting all other parts of my life fall to the side. Even an imbalance that was initially energizing has led to collapse in other domains. So, it’s hard for me to say why this goal is important to me right now. I think the main reason is that I would rather be working, and this takes time away from working, and if I fall into another cycle there will be even less time for working. I was really happy on the days I was both working and not purging, so I want to get back to that.
2. I feel a lot more like a person doing this. Waking up at nearly noon today did not feel good.
3. Currently, it’s the one thing I feel like I’m looking forward to.

> How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

1. Accept the urges and sit with them. Remind myself that this is not what I want. Especially at night, when the urges are strongest, be gentle with myself and don’t force anything. Frustration and burnout will lead me to want to self-soothe.
2. I need to set my alarm for the appropriate time tomorrow morning, regardless of when I fall asleep tonight.
3. Reading some papers and not procrastinating.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] Clean my space – clean up bathroom, pick up clothes, take out trash, wash dishes
- [ ] Read and process some papers sent by Dr. Lindsay
- [ ] Notetaking for [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]]
	- [ ] Finish processing [[2022-santa-fe-institute-embodied-situated-and-grounded-intelligence]]
	- [ ] Finish processing [[2021-santa-fe-institute-foundations-of-intelligence]]

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [ ] Deep “everything” shower and personal grooming
- [ ] Finish and log Swann’s Way
- [ ] Respond to Aidan’s texts
- [x] Start making permanent note on Complexity book

## Future file

[[2023-12-27]]
- [ ] Set up UW NetID
- [ ] Schedule next time to meet with Isabella
- [ ] Mail out NYC binchie secret Santa gift

[[2023-12-26]]
- [ ] Schedule an appointment with Beyond Barnard for application review
- [ ] Make a small coding project to put on application resume

[[2023-12-25]]
- [ ] Schedule phone calls with friends
- [ ] Mend socks
- [ ] Revise and import planners from old vault
- [ ] Finish reading *Models of the Mind*

[[2023-12-24]]
- [ ] Respond to Ken Block email and review *Klara and the Sun*
- [ ] Send Rex a postcard
- [ ] Get a Dirt subscription
- [ ] Read emails from Russ Warrick

---
# Notes

- Just updated my Quartz website to have custom colors in the graph – was cautioned against modifying the config file itself, will keep this in mind if there are future issues.
	- Edited `graph.inline.ts`, `theme.ts`, and `quartz.config.ts`.

---
# Media log

[[isolt-swanns-way|Swann's Way]] | Marcel Proust | Book
- Finished the book today, the last pages discussing the narrator’s love for Gilberte were much harder to get through.
- Again, Proust seems to be surgically dismantling what the rest of us humans cannot articulate, the *arational* cognitive processes!
- Beginning discussion of the various cities (impressions are captured by a few key features) and memory (reality loses the charm of memory; our lives are a collection of these impressions).
- I look forward to rereading as this felt more like a “checklist” read. Lydia Davis translation next time, too.