---
tags:
  - daily-note
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20231223-bb-program-week-0|Week 0: Laying the Foundation]]
>Giving myself the best chance of success by making (small and big) tweaks to my life and mindset.

> What are my weekly goals?

1. Have at least two days in a row relapse-free.
2. Wake up at 9 AM at the latest each day.
3. Finish the [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]] short answer questions.

> Why are my weekly goals important to me *today*?

> How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

> Themed journal question: 

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] Laundry and clean up
- [ ] Complete my daily journaling prompts

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?

## Today

- [x] Set up my digital garden and start publishing notes
- [ ] Finish reading Swann’s Way

## Future file

- [ ] Look at papers sent by Dr. Lindsay
- [ ] Mail out NYC binchie gift
- [ ] Set up UW NetID

[[2023-12-26]]
- [ ] Schedule an appointment with Beyond Barnard for application review
- [ ] Make a small coding project to put on application resume

[[2023-12-25]]
- [ ] Schedule phone calls with friends
- [ ] Mend socks
- [ ] Revise and import planners from old vault
- [ ] Finish reading *Models of the Mind*

[[2023-12-24]]
- [ ] Respond to Ken Block email and review *Klara and the Sun*
- [ ] Send Rex a postcard
- [ ] Get a Dirt subscription
- [ ] Read emails from Russ Warrick

---
# Notes

- So I basically spent the whole morning setting up my digital garden and figuring out how to publish it online. I will need to do the journal prompts after work, if at all.
- I feel strange and dissociated today.

---
# Media log
