---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2023-12-29T14:52:50-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20231223-bb-program-week-0|Week 0: Laying the Foundation]]
>Giving myself the best chance of success by making (small and big) tweaks to my life and mindset.

> What are my weekly goals?

1. Have at least two days in a row relapse-free.
2. Wake up at 9 AM at the latest each day.
3. Finish the [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]] short answer questions.

> Why are my weekly goals important to me *today*?

1. Last night was so miserable, and I felt so defeated waking up today. I want to feel like I felt earlier this week, when I was walking and balancing my intellectual growth with some degree of physical care. On a more vain note, I feel so bloated right now, eating is unbearable. I want my body to just function normally.
2. I want more time to live in the day. Being awake after the sunset for a long time also leads me to want to binge.
3. I think I am leaning into procrastinating on actually starting this. Drafting my answers this week will take the pressure off next week, letting me focus on my recovery work.

> How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

1. I need to remind myself of how much else I am living for. I need to remember that the short-term “pleasure” is infinitesimal compared to how satisfying it will be to not have purged. I need to prioritize my future self, as the future is inevitable. In terms of actions, I need to sit with the urges. I should also consume more recovery content so that I can be in the right mindset.
2. I need to actually set my alarm for tomorrow morning to wake up at the correct time.
3. I need to work on my designated tasks instead of getting distracted by fiddling with side work, like my website. However, I also need to give myself regular breaks so that I don’t feel burnt out.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] Tidy up my space – pick up laundry, wash dishes, clean bathroom, take out trash
- [x] Thoughtfully fill out my daily journal (above)
- [ ] Read and process texts for [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]]
	- [ ] Read and process papers sent by Dr. Lindsay
	- [ ] Finish processing [[foundations-of-intelligence-in-natural-and-artificial-systems]]
	- [ ] Finish processing [[embodied-situated-and-grounded-intelligence]]

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?

## Today

- [x] Make a note about affliction, process essays
- [x] Email Seth about not working
- [ ] Make notes about [[The builder’s mindset]] and [[Perfectionism]]

## Future file

[[2023-12-27]]
- [ ] Set up UW NetID
- [ ] Schedule next time to meet with Isabella
- [ ] Mail out NYC binchie secret Santa gift

[[2023-12-26]]
- [ ] Schedule an appointment with Beyond Barnard for application review
- [ ] Make a small coding project to put on application resume

[[2023-12-25]]
- [ ] Schedule phone calls with friends
- [ ] Mend socks
- [ ] Revise and import planners from old vault
- [ ] Finish reading *Models of the Mind*

[[2023-12-24]]
- [ ] Respond to Ken Block email and review *Klara and the Sun*
- [ ] Send Rex a postcard
- [ ] Get a Dirt subscription
- [ ] Read emails from Russ Warrick

---
# Notes

---
# Media log
