---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2023-12-30T16:02:36-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20231223-bb-program-week-0|Week 0: Laying the Foundation]]
>Giving myself the best chance of success by making (small and big) tweaks to my life and mindset.

> What are my weekly goals?

1. Have at least two days in a row relapse-free.
2. Wake up at 9 AM at the latest each day.
3. Finish the [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]] short answer questions.

> Why are my weekly goals important to me *today*?

1. As I heard in a Binge Breakers podcast yesterday, *abstinence from purging is necessary for recovery*. I take “abstinence” to mean a conscious commitment to not performing the act, like sobriety. I personally know that it’s the prospect of purging, not binging, that initiates the cycle. So I need to be abstinent from purging sooner or later. And I’d rather practice sooner.
2. I woke up at 8 today, and having time in the morning is wonderful. Going to bed at a reasonable time last night was also wonderful; I felt like my entire day was accounted for. I want to live each day as if it is a representative for my whole life.

> How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

1. I have one night relapse-free, so tonight I can make it two! What worked for me last night was being sufficiently tired to fall asleep at a reasonable hour; I’m guessing that was because of taking melatonin and magnesium supplements. Mentally, I need to be committed to *abstinence* from purging, so that binging does not become an option. Instead of using my evening to binge, I will use it to read a book I am excited about.
2. I will set my alarm again for both 8 and 9 AM. I will sleep at a reasonable hour, before midnight.

> Themed journal question: What elements of my life need to change to facilitate space for me and my recovery?

- I need to not keep trigger foods in the house. This means asking my parents to not buy me snacks I didn’t ask for (I’ve already done this, but I’m still wary).
- I need to be able to make my own safe meal when I am confronted with triggering homemade food as well. This means I always need to have ingredients on hand for:
	- Avocado protein bowl
	- Flax oats
- I need to make time for filling out my recovery journal first thing in the morning (or as close to it as possible), when my brain is at its most focused.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Mail out NYC binchie secret Santa gift
- [x] Start outlining responses for [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]]

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?

## Today

- [x] Write a review for *Atta*
- [x] Organize used books for Third Place appointment on 1/9
- [ ] Start processing notes for [[2009-mitchell-complexity-a-guided-tour]], or read more of the book
## Future file

[[2023-12-27]]
- [ ] Set up UW NetID

[[2023-12-26]]
- [ ] Schedule an appointment with Beyond Barnard for application review
- [ ] Make a small coding project to put on application resume

[[2023-12-25]]
- [ ] Schedule phone calls with friends
- [ ] Mend socks
- [ ] Revise and import planners from old vault
- [ ] Finish reading *Models of the Mind*

[[2023-12-24]]
- [x] Respond to Ken Block email and review *Klara and the Sun*
- [x] Send Rex a postcard
- [ ] Read emails from Russ Warrick

---
# Notes

- I am confusing myself while trying to write my research statement for [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]]. 
	- I want to somehow model many interacting components as a part of a cognitive system. However, I’m not sure how to frame this: embodiment, and components are other agents; or AI representing different mental modules? Is there a meaningful difference when everything is a hierarchy?
		- I guess I need to decide on what exactly I’m operationalizing to determine my actual research strategy.

---
# Media log

When We Cease to Understand the World | Benjamin Labatut | Book
- Started reading this last night; about halfway through.
- I kind of love the mythologizing! Moves between concepts and stories so fluidly.
- All the geniuses are certifiably insane. Supernatural intelligence leads to weird habits. If they did not produce, they would be thrown in a mental institution I think.

Atta | Jarett Kobek | Book
- Finished this short novel last night, as well as the short story “The Whitman of Tikrit,” which imagines Saddam Hussein’s last day before capture.
- The book is based on his real master’s thesis on architecture studies; jumping point for the narrator’s many contradictions. For example:
	- He hates the architecture of modernity (mostly skyscrapers) mostly because of their *vibe*, but doesn’t consider their physical reality (people in the skyscrapers).
	- As he becomes obsessed with his faith, he is distant from everything real that his faith provides rules for. He is critical of his family. His faith cannot be embodied, same as the architectural Forms.
	- There is some personal suffering in the form of racism toward the beginning (35), but more often than not, Atta is driven by an imagined collective suffering.
	- He often speaks of violence (e.g., discussion of Odysseus on p. 53) but does not have any idea of true violence because of his privileged upbringing.
	- Insane analysis of what I imagine to be the Jungle King on p. 117. “Brother, you see the hidden meaning of everything.”
	- He criticizes worldly pleasures but, as Jarrah says on p. 126, jihad takes that place for him.
- Interesting parallel between “These are not men. They are fleas feasting on your blood” and Hussein eating ants later.
- “The Whitman of Tikrit” is a bit mythologizing, if only because I don’t know how many of the personal details are real.