---
tags:
  - daily-note
---
# Daily journal

[[20231223-bb-program-week-0|Week 0: Laying the Foundation]]

> What are my weekly goals?

1. Have at least two days in a row relapse-free.
2. Wake up at 9 AM at the latest each day.
3. Finish the [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]] short answer questions.

> Why are my weekly goals important to me *today*?

1. I felt absolutely horrible last night after relapsing. I was at an absolute low both physically and mentally: uncomfortably hot and sweating profusely, even when I got up to lie on the ground; I dissociated hard and thought about how I didn’t want to wake up the next day to face the consequences. I am tired of having this experience, for nothing. I would much rather just enjoy my evening. Also, I just remembered, I want to go on a spring break trip with Maeve. I would like to feel normal on that trip.
2. I managed to wake up at 8 AM naturally, and it felt like a great reset after the weight of last night. I think that if I had woken later, say 10-12, I would have felt thrown off and had a stronger impulse to relapse as soon as I was up.
3. Part of me is driven by anxiety; in my half-conscious, half-dreaming state, I was worrying about how to get this done. I want to finish as soon as possible so that Dr. Lindsay has enough time to write a letter of recommendation. I am really excited about this opportunity, but I need to spend time reading in order to adapt my own ideas.

> How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

1. I need to stay sober, point blank. My response to urges is too intentional right now to be able to stick to while intoxicated and having lower impulse control. Sobering up also makes me uncomfortable, so I am more inclined to seek quick pleasure in the form of a binge.
2. I was lucky today about waking up, but I will set my alarm for 9 AM instead of 10. Getting up at 8 was the right move, because I will have a sleep schedule and bedtime more aligned to what I want it to be. No caffeine, again.
3. I need to have patience with myself and not work while fueled with anxiety, which might tip me to an unbearable point and make me want to seek comfort through a binge. I will be better about taking breaks, even if it is just to look away from the computer screen every 20 or so minutes to allow my eyes to adjust. My mindset should be one of excitement and gratefulness, not nervous anticipation. I will evaluate my schedule later in the day to see if I want to keep working or do something for the holiday.

> Themed journal question: How do I need to show up to this process to be successful?

- I need to stop procrastinating and treating my recovery as a fantasy of the future. The idea that I will get around to it eventually is an excuse for not recovering now. I need to understand that there is nothing else I am waiting for, and the present is *the best time* for me to recover.
- I know in my gut what decisions will let me progress with recovery, and which will stall me or force me to take a step back. For example, drinking is a gateway for me to relapse, whether because my impulses are lowered while drunk or because I do not know how else to tolerate a hangover. I am absolutely sure I will relapse after drinking, so instead of using it as an excuse to dismiss my goal of recovery, I need to be honest about my intentions from the start.
- As a more general mindset, I need to stop sabotaging myself because I am afraid to let go of bulimia. I understand that bulimia is not enjoyable and brings a great amount of misery to my life. I need to remember this when sitting with urges in the moment, and I need to understand that the difficulty of recovery is the difficulty of changing a habit. I need to be ready to *do the thing* in practice, not just idealize it.
- I need to continue reflecting on recovery and never give up on myself, even if I fail to show up in any other way. I need to believe that recovery is possible and, again, the best time to recover is right now.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Clean up – put away laundry, wash dishes, change bedsheets
- [x] Shower
- [ ] (Continued from [[2023-12-24]]) Draft essay questions for [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]]
	- [ ] Take notes on current research
		- [ ] Read workshop reports from [Foundations of Intelligence](https://intelligence.santafe.edu/) project
		- [ ] Process [[2022-santa-fe-institute-embodied-situated-and-grounded-intelligence]]

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [x] Complete and submit forms for UW physics class, add to calendar

## Future file

- [ ] Schedule phone calls with friends
- [ ] Mend socks
- [ ] Revise and import planners from other vaults
- [ ] Start a literature note for *GEB* book – divide into parts and chapters?
- [x] Add to [[2024]] goals, make them more well-rounded?
- [ ] Finish reading *Models of the Mind*

See [[2023-12-24]] for more.

---
# Notes

- Was inspired by my need to process the article [[2022-santa-fe-institute-embodied-situated-and-grounded-intelligence]] while not being finished with reading another workshop report, made [[taxonomy-of-note-types]] and [[My workflow]] to guide myself. This was a lot of fun!
- I just realized that my UW class conflicts with the recovery coaching program! Unfortunately, I already emailed the NM registration office, should’ve waited for the coach’s response before. 
	- Hoping that I can miss one of the two group calls in a given week.
	- Otherwise, I will prioritize the coaching program, even if class excites me :(
- Got distracted for a few hours copying my notes on [[§ Linear algebra]] from my other vault. I miss learning about linear algebra!
	- [[§ Abstract algebra]], on the other hand. I looked at my Modern Algebra I masterpost of class notes and I understand none of it. Adding to the future file: actually learn abstract algebra before taking MA II.
- “\[note title], after \[name]” is a good titling convention for notes that I don’t necessarily agree with (possibly neutral), but am intrigued enough to make a record of the concept.

---
# Media log

[How to Make 2024 The Best Year of Your Life](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c_DOG_mXz5w) | Ali Abdaal | Video
- The creator describes three different planning methods for taking an inventory of one’s current life and setting goals for 2024.
- The Wheel of Life: rate your “alignment” with each of 10 categories
	- Health – physical, mental, spiritual
	- Work – career, money, growth
	- Relationships – romance, family, friends
	- Joy
- 12 Month Celebration: in each of the previous 10 categories, pick one goal or milestone that you would celebrate in 12 months, e.g., by going out to dinner with a friend.
- Ideal Week Method: after selecting a goal in each category, plan out your ideal week in a blank calendar.
	- First, schedule concrete events.
	- Plan out routines, like when to wake up.
	- Fill out remaining time with actions that contribute to the 12 month celebrations.

[[godel-escher-bach-part-1-geb|Godel Escher Bach, Part 1: GEB]] | Douglas Hofstadter | Book
- Strikes me that the book is not a means to an end (i.e., conveying an overarching thesis or argument), but an end itself. The beauty is in the structure and presentation of ideas.
- I’m halfway by seeing this as a work of genius because of its structure and feeling disenchanted at the content, which seems to be the ramblings of a grad student. 
- I appreciate novel concepts and rabbit-holes, not so satisfied with the way that Hofstadter is a bit imprecise with some definitions. 
- Also the “strange loops” premise (assuming metaphor for consciousness) feels unsupported. The only evidence is analogy.

Expand Your Life Beyond Bulimia | Binge Breakers | Podcast
- Many people feel like they need to delay the things they want to do (i.e., “the rest of life”) until after recovering.
- The host advocates for doing one thing unrelated to bulimia and recovery as soon as you can.

What Really Makes You Happy? | Binge Breakers | Podcast
- The host tells an anecdote from group coaching. She had asked a member, “When was the last time you were happy?” The member answered that it was about a week ago while cracking a joke with a coworker over Zoom.
- The host uses this example to demonstrate how moments of happiness are not tied to eating disordered actions, so one should not fear misery when having to let go of the ED.
	- Even if outcomes of the ED lead to happiness, this is usually because we have assigned some morality to them (e.g., weight loss is better health, becoming skinny is an accomplishment).

Percy Jackson and the Olympians | Disney+ | TV show
- Finished second episode.