---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-12T13:36:21-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20240107-bb-program-week-2|Week 2: Identifying and Changing Patterns]]
>**Intentions:**
>- Discover what worked from new routines, as well as what challenges came from them.
>- Learn more about what eating routines work, gain more awareness around my habits, and continue making progress away from behaviors.
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Review my biggest challenge with interrupting my behavior pattern and readjust based on what worked and didn’t work.
>2. Make any adjustments needed to eating patterns.

> Weekly goals:
> 1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
> 2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

**Goal 1:** Use the pause method every time I get an urge, reminding myself that relapsing is a choice.
1. I’ve been focusing on immediate deadlines for the modeling workshop, but I will have a hard time being successful in the competition if I continue to give into binge urges when I am under pressure. I need to learn to respond to urges with better habits, and practicing the pause is my chosen protocol for doing so.
2. **Action items:**
	1. Practice pausing when I do not have urges.
	2. Practice pausing when I feel other forms of frustration or emotion, even if I don’t yet want to relieve them by binging (e.g., getting to a place of brute-force trying to fix my code).
3. **Intentional thoughts:**
	1. I will remain aware of myself and what I need.
	2. I will unconditionally accept the feelings I have at any given time.
	3. I am unconditionally allowed to binge after pausing. All that matters is that I complete the *act* of pausing itself.

**Goal 2:** Spend a majority of evenings without relapsing.
1. My reasons today are superficial, but I don’t want to be in this cycle of spending a day (or two, that one time) without purging, having my face swell up, purging and reducing the swelling, only to swell up worse the day after. I want to cut down and see my actual face again.
2. **Action items:**
	1. Since I am most likely to binge in the evening, I need to make my night routine automatic: having a small meal, taking a long walk, taking off make-up (use oil, then face cleanser, then micellar water for remaining bits), and taking a shower if I want.
	2. I will read in bed until I am tired enough to sleep.
	3. If I feel the urges building up, I will not respond by trying to distract myself. Instead, I will name the feeling and come up with a *deliberate* plan of action.
3. **Intentional thoughts:**
	1. I am capable of going to bed even with some discomfort. Every feeling will pass: physical hunger, mental urges.
	2. If I relapse, I should first make sure that it was my choice.

**Goal 3:** Wake up at 9 a.m. at the latest each day.
1. I only have time to work on CUMMW in the mornings!
2. **Action items:**
	1. Set my alarm for tomorrow morning.
	2. Don’t stay up late (i.e., don’t relapse!).
3. **Intentional thoughts:**
	1. It’s okay if I can’t fall asleep immediately. I am doing my best, and it will get easier. I have a strong opposite habit pattern to change.
	2. No matter how long I have to sit in bed and read, it will not have a “worse” outcome than binging to try and fall asleep.


> Themed journal question: How do you want to intentionally think and act when urges come up, regardless of your initial reaction?

- I will stop whatever action I am taking immediately. I will stop physically moving.
- If the urges are overwhelming and I think I will be forced to binge at any second, I will go to another location or physical position, like lying on the ground.
- I will acknowledge aloud, “I am experiencing an urge right now.”
- I will pause and feel the urge. If I need help with this, I will listen to Jacqueline’s “in the moment” recording, which I have saved to my phone.
- Afterward, I can choose to binge.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Finish coding word attributes for [[20240104-CUMMW|CUMMW]]

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [ ] Email weekly check-in for [[20240107-bb-program-week-2|Week 2: Identifying and Changing Patterns]]
- [x] Carefully fill out my daily recovery journal
- [ ] Start [[20240112-application-cdt-technology-internship]]
	- [ ] Take basic notes on application materials
	- [ ] Brainstorm essay question responses
- [ ] Dry and put away laundry
- [x] Fill out last night’s media log

## Future file

- [ ] Make a vision board for 2024 or January
- [ ] Change jars for oil paint supplies
- [ ] Take notes on [[2009-mitchell-complexity-a-guided-tour|Complexity: A Guided Tour]]
- [ ] Figure out WhatsApp on PC and ask to join recovery WhatsApp group
- [ ] Respond to Angela’s texts
- [x] Respond to Ken Block’s email
- [ ] (Tomorrow) CUMMW next steps
	- [ ] EDA for word attributes
	- [ ] Decide on a model and start training

---
# Notes

- Small things to buy:
	- [x] Teapot for brewing loose leaf tea
	- [x] Rosemary hair oil for scalp (eventually with [high-quality pen](https://korabeauticals.com/product/korabeauticals-v2/)?)
	- [ ] Olaplex

---
# Media log

The Visionaries | Wolfram Eilenberger | Book
- Ayn Rand’s philosophy that the truest human potential is achieved when completely detached from the world (?) is rationally unappealing, but intuitively seems to be how I live. Should probably read Nietzsche.
- Opposing perspectives on love from Arendt and Beauvoir: Arendt sees love as the end, Beauvoir the beginning (everything extends from the “we”).
- Should read Sartre!

The Sea, the Sea | Iris Murdoch | Book
- In the span of 20 pages, 2.5 old lovers have shown up for this guy Charles.
- Love the way that relationships are “shown,” not told; Charles hardly seems to have the interiority to account for all the emotions experienced for his sake, and yet, it’s his past actions that brought them about.