---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-30T21:31:50-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20240130-bb-program-week-5|Week 5: Weight, Body Acceptance, and Weight Loss]]
>**Intention:** Explore body changes that might be happening, what they mean to me, and how I *want* to feel about them right now. Recommitting to the process based on that change.
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Dive deeper into how my body is feeling after 5 weeks of work.
>2. Intentionally thinking about my body less *or* in a more neutral manner.
>3. Treating my body with love, compassion, and respect.
>
>**Personal weekly goals:**
>1. Commit to *abstinence* from purging.
>2. Practice self-care by performing my full night routine each evening.
>3. Check in with friends via messages or in person each day.

> Themed journal question: *Think of your body or look at your body. What are all the unfiltered thoughts and feelings that come up?*

- I would like my legs to be a lot more slender. I want to be able to comfortably wrap my hands around my thighs.
- I am worried that my lack of exercise will make me more skinny fat. I should do Pilates more regularly.
- I hate how swollen my face is from purging. I wish there were an easy fix. I am so impatient. I can’t stop poking and massaging at my cheeks to try and reduce the swelling. I’m worried that my glands will look like this for a very long time.
- I’m satisfied with how thin I am, but I am constantly anxious that it will change. I wish I had a consistent body.
- I don’t really like how I am built. I do not have much of a tapered waistline and I’m worried that many fitted tops look disgusting on me because of my huge ribcage.
- I hate how short my legs are. I wish I were a few inches taller. It’s a constant disappointment that this is something I will never be able to change about myself.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Draft 1-2 responses for [[20231219-application-break-through-tech-ai]]
- [x] Complete journal for [[20240130-bb-program-week-5|Week 5: Weight, Body Acceptance, and Weight Loss]]

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [x] Make plans with Graham and/or David for tomorrow, respond to all my other messages

## Future file

- [ ] Review additional materials for art class
- [ ] Make a literature note for *How to Read Literature*
- [ ] Make final preparations for CUMMW

---
# Notes

- Recovery call notes
	- What to do when you have a lapse?
		- Admit and acknowledge it, say it out loud, tell someone
		- Review what you can with the last behavior you had
			- When did it happen?
			- Where were you when it happened?
			- What led up to the behavior?
			- What were my thoughts before, during and after?
			- What did I try to say to myself, what did I end up saying and thinking?
			- A hard one! Did you try anything to prevent it? What were they? If not, why?
			- Are there any other details you remember before it happened? How did you know when it started? When did you recognize it?
		- Create a new strategy moving forward
			- Prevent and change anything that consistently leads to lapses, especially the easy things
			- Ask what binging was doing for you during that time, and what else you can do to help that feeling
			- Understand that preventative tactics, like eating consistent meals and pausing, does not mean binging is off the table – remove scarcity!
		- Forgive yourself – even though there’s nothing to forgive!
	- Know that recovery requires showing up *every day*, even though it’s hard to have a lapse and try again
		- Continuing to try is a vote of confidence, show yourself that you are worth it

---
# Media log

Thousand Cranes | Book | Yasunari Kawabata
- Read for RSBC discussion at the end of February
- Kawabata on tea ceremonies in his [Nobel speech](https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/literature/1968/kawabata/lecture/):
	- “A tea ceremony is a coming together in feeling, a meeting of good comrades in a good season. I may say in passing, that to see my novel _Thousand Cranes_ as an evocation of the formal and spiritual beauty of the tea ceremony is a misreading. It is a negative work, and expression of doubt about and warning against the vulgarity into which the tea ceremony has fallen.”
	- I should read the whole thing when I get a chance, feels like I need more context for Kawabata’s attitude towards tradition to fully understand the novel. Was he conservative like his friend Mishima?
- Note that all the characters are women. Who has power and when? Is it consistent, or always in flux? Are women always subjugated?
	- None of the characters are realistic. What does each represent?
- Note the emphasis on history, old objects, and contrast with the transience of the present and present relationships (commented on several times).
- How does the beauty mark relate to other themes?
- [[20240130-rsbc-thousand-cranes-discussion]]

Learn How Color Theory Can Push Your Creativity to the Next Level | Article | My Modern Met
- Color theory is the science of how we perceive hues and how hues can be blended.
- The seven basic color schemes are complementary (opposites), analogous (beside), triadic, split-complementary, tetradic (rectangle), square, achromatic, and monochromatic.
	- For schemes with more than two colors, ideally one should be the main and others should be accents.
- Three different schemes for primary colors: RYB, CMY(K), RGB.
	- RYB and CMY are subtractive, meaning pigments form new colors by absorbing parts of the visible spectrum.
	- RGB is additive, meaning different colors of white are used to achieve light?

[Color Theory and Josef Albers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4WDoHbOHxKw) | Video | Winsor & Newton
- Josef Albers is famous for the observation that the appearance of colors can be altered by the colors around it.
- “In order to use color effectively, it is necessary to recognize that color deceives continually.”
- Think about color relationships when planning paintings!

[Josef Albers: The Magic of Color](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l3xpTtn7zo8) | Video | David Zwirner