---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-06-12T10:13:52-06:00
---
>[!example] Reminder
>Be the most excellent version of myself I can be, one day at a time. If I look back on today specifically, I want to be proud of what I did and who I am.

# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Prepare for meetings with Chris Kempes and Simon DeDeo
- [x] Write project summary

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [x] Check out library books – *Proofs and Refutations*, *Reinventing Discovery*; return Lakoff?
- [ ] Print out Polymath paper and begin anotations

## Future file


**Work and career**
- [ ] Reach out to Tony/Anna/Marina about reading recommendations/group
	- [ ] Follow up with Tony about “semantic drift” book, aesthetics of mathematics
	- [ ] Ask Anna about ideas in history of mathematics
- [ ] Familiarize myself with profiles of SFI faculty, see who to connect with
- [ ] Finish “Intro Complexity” course

**Personal**
- [ ] Start animating Ted Chiang’s “Exhalation”
- [ ] Look into or note the following concepts:
	- [ ] Multi-cellular life as a “charismatic center”
	- [ ] Semantic drift
	- [ ] Chiang’s slide about “extrapolation using poetic license”
	- [ ] Assembly theory in biology
	- [ ] Mathematical universe hypothesis
- [ ] Import notes for the following concepts:
	- [ ] Continuum of democracy
	- [ ] Gathering insights from modeling research application, currently in Overleaf

**Readings**
- [ ] Relevant links from “Just ML” community lecture
- [ ] Charles Ginzburg, “To Kill a Chinese Man”

---
# Notes

#### Project abstract

>What to do:
>- Mentor(s): Who will you work with? Have they agreed to (co)mentor you on this project?
>- Main idea you're pursuing: In 1-3 sentences, describe what area you intend to work in. Based on what you know so far, what are some possible directions you'll pursue? If known, what methods, approaches, or tools might be relevant?
>- Next 2 weeks: What will you work on during weeks 2 & 3? Consider what you will prioritize in terms of reading, learning new skills, meetings with people, etc. Keep it brief for this statement of interest, but consider getting specific and granular in your own notes or calendar to make it clear how you'll dive in and do the work.

**Mentors:** Marina Dubova, Simon DeDeo

**Project idea:**
In “[[2023-viteri-dedeo-epistemic-phase-transitions|Epistemic phase transitions in mathematical proofs]],” Viteri & DeDeo introduce a network model to represent directional belief formation between different mathematical claims, then use this model to analyze both machine assisted proofs in the Coq language, and human proofs from published mathematical papers. I intend to extend this method to the collaborative proofs using data from the Polymath project, in which online users worked together to publish a proof of the density Hales-Jewett theorem. I will then use qualitative data from real-time comments and discussions to analyze the actual reasoning process used in distinguished claim nodes.

**Next 2 weeks:**
Overall, I plan to make as much progress as I can at SFI but definitely expect to continue this project after the eight remaining weeks. In week 2, I will look for a suitable publication from the Polymath community and hand-encode the claims to make the basic proof network; I will also do more background reading in the epistemology of mathematical proofs and the Polymath story itself. Depending on the progress I have made, on week 3 I will look into web scraping strategies for the commenting data. I will meet with mentors twice weekly throughout this process.

#### Summary of meeting with DeDeo

**Project overview**
1. Encode claims in a proof published from the Polymath project, apply methods of analysis from original paper.
	1. Look for power-law scaling; potentially talk to Sid Redner about the power-law exponent (cited in original paper).

#### Encoding claims

- How to account for definitions?
- Do I only encode the explicit links? What about sub-arguments referenced before?
	- Note “by the proof of”…
- Note **number of times** each claim is referenced by another