---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-02-06T13:41:04-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20240206-bb-program-week-6|Week 6: Making My Life Bigger Than Bulimia]]
>**Intention:** Allow my life to take up more space than the bulimia. Explore and find ways to enjoy stuff without bulimia. Slowly let bulimia die away rather than trying to rid myself of it.
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Intentionally think about recovery, food, and body *less*.
>2. Make time for something I *want* to do at least one time this week.
>
>**Weekly goals:**
>1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
>2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals?
>3. What intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

>**Goal 1:** Commit to abstinence from purging.

I’m feeling unbearably insecure about my face swelling. There’s a lot of other reasons I want to stick to this goal floating around in my head (mostly, that I *should* be trying to recover, every day is another day towards going back to school and “real” life, etc.), but this one is the most tangible for me right now, as I have to actually touch my face and look in the mirror in the present.

**Action items:**
- I will go to my recovery meeting, and later in the evening I will go to trivia. I’m making social plans for when I am most vulnerable. When I find myself tired, I will go home.
- I will not drink too much. I will let myself sober up at home and stay hydrated.
- I will respond to every urge with a pause. This will give me time to remind myself about my commitment to abstinence, as well as the fact that it’s only for one week—I can always go back to purging in the future.

**Intentional thoughts:**
- Any drink I have is not an excuse to relapse.
- I don’t actually have to go to trivia tonight, if I decide I don’t want to. I can also cancel and *not* purge, it’s not one or the other.
- I am only not purging for this week. It’s not like if I don’t do it tonight, I can never do it again. I can always purge later. I’m not missing anything.

>**Goal 2:** Reach out to someone each day, whether over text or in person.

This keeps me sane and gives me something outside of myself to look forward to. I turn to bulimia when I’m feeling lonely and aimless. This gives me a reason to not purge—so I can be with other people.

**Action items:**
- I can literally just text anyone, and I already have.
- I made plans to go to trivia with Isabella and co. tonight. I will show up and have a good time.

**Intentional thoughts:**
- Relationships are a important dimension of self care. It doesn’t make sense to ignore them when I have more intellectual tasks, when the latter isn’t exactly more important.
- Even if my relationships are not the most interesting thing in my life at the moment, I can suck it up. People can do things that are not immediately interesting.

>**Goal 3:** Check in with the recovery group each day.

I need to convince myself that I am indeed in recovery. Having a group of people in my life who understand my struggles is so valuable, and I haven’t been taking enough advantage. I feel so guilty about how poorly I am doing in comparison, but that’s a reason to lean in and try harder, rather than hide.

**Action items:**
- Respond to Jacqueline’s personal check-in email.
- Read messages in the group chat as they happen and *actually think about what they’re saying*. Too often, I think about messages with respect to myself, and I only go into the messages when I have something to say.

**Intentional thoughts:**
- Having this group in my life is a gift.
- Everyone in the group is an inspiration to me: Krissy has been so open and honest about recovery, as well as a beacon of support for everyone else; Michelle has transformed her lifestyle completely by quitting professional soccer to prioritize her wellness; AK is in the exact situation I was in, having an eating disorder in college, yet she is still active in the group and constantly shows her commitment to the recovery process.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Weekly recovery journal reflection and setting up new goals
- [x] Respond to Binge Breakers check-in email
- [ ] Clean the room, change sheets, do laundry

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [ ] Write up experience from MCM
- [ ] Write review or notes for Plato’s *Republic*
- [ ] Look into spring break plans
- [ ] Look over my 2024 goals list
- [ ] Clear out my emails

## Future file

- [ ] Start preparing for quant interview

---
# Notes

---
# Media log
