---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-09T20:06:35-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20240107-bb-program-week-2|Week 2: Identifying and Changing Patterns]]
>**Intentions:**
>- Discover what worked from new routines, as well as what challenges came from them.
>- Learn more about what eating routines work, gain more awareness around my habits, and continue making progress away from behaviors.
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Review my biggest challenge with interrupting my behavior pattern and readjust based on what worked and didn’t work.
>2. Make any adjustments needed to eating patterns.

> Weekly goals:
> 1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
> 2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

**Goal 1:** Use the pause method every time I get an urge, reminding myself that relapsing is a choice.
1. I think this really is the key to not purging. I am averse to using the pause method because I know the cognitive dissonance of going through with my behaviors will be too much, and I will feel too guilty to binge. Even though I try (although I’m still not sure I’m really doing this) to give myself permission to relapse regardless, I feel like the sequence of events after pausing is set in stone. An interesting overlap with how I feel when I *do* relapse! How can I invite more uncertainty, possibility, and capacity to change into my life?
2. **Action items:**
	1. Every time I feel myself becoming less aware of the world around me (e.g., clouded judgement, burnt out), I will react with a pause. I want to make this response automatic.
	2. I give myself breaks throughout the day so that I don’t get to a place of struggling to think rationally. I don’t want it to be an issue of “discipline.”
	3. I will practice pausing throughout the day when I am not experiencing urges.
3. **Intentional thoughts:**
	1. I give myself full permission to binge after pausing. Pausing only helps me think about the consequences more, and thoughts are not real life.

**Goal 2:** Spend a majority of evenings without relapsing.
1. After being on the group call today, I feel a little bit disappointed that I am not doing as well as some of the other members. I feel no great victory at being “sicker,” and I don’t want to “get sicker” to the point of some others. I want to make my time in this program count by following it to the best of my ability, but that means I have to resign myself to meeting this goal. In truth, I am disappointed and think about meeting this goal as a form of loss—I want to have my cake and eat it too. But again, I think of the others making progress without me, and I don’t want to be left behind.
2. **Action items:**
	1. Make sure I wind down for bed at an appropriate hour. If I don’t feel like working any more that day, do not force myself.
	2. Eat later in the evening so that I feel satisfied and ready to sleep.
	3. If I wake up in the middle of the night, stay in bed and read until I sleep again. Every feeling will pass. Getting up to binge will *not* help me sleep better, because it gives me less time to rest.
3. **Intentional thoughts:**
	1. I will not feel bad about not being productive in the evening. Even doing nothing is better than relapsing, because doing nothing is a step towards recovery!
	2. I can’t wait to wake up tomorrow feeling refreshed because I did not purge tonight.
	3. Remember how I woke up in the middle of the night and managed to read until I fell back asleep? I can do this!
	4. Look at how much I got done today! This is the only the beginning of what recovery will offer me.

**Goal 3:** Wake up at 9 a.m. at the latest each day.
1. I am tired and have nothing to else to do tonight, and I would rather have that time in the morning to myself.
2. **Action items:**
	1. Set alarm for the right time, as always.
	2. Wind down for bed as soon as I finish writing this journal!
	3. Take a walk after my last meal and before sleeping so that I don’t have any linger need for physical movement.
3. **Intentional thoughts:**
	1. I can’t wait to wake up tomorrow morning, so I’d better sleep well tonight.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Work [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]] application
	- [x] Complete first draft of research proposal
	- [x] Print out SFI essay questions for a second round of revision
- [x] Look into Ben Franklin group info from Tiffany

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [x] Update SFI resume to include CUMMW in “projects,” website
- [x] Ask for feedback on application responses?
- [x] Look over application forms for extra writing or materials
- [x] Follow up with all unanswered texts
- [x] Make Discord group chat for CUMMW team
- [x] Fill out daily recovery journal

## Future file

[[2024-01-08]]
- [ ] Make a vision board for 2024 or January
- [ ] Change jars for oil paint supplies
- [ ] Take notes on rubric from MCM judges for [[20240104-CUMMW|CUMMW]]
- [ ] Write in my physical journal
- [ ] Take notes on [[2009-mitchell-complexity-a-guided-tour|Complexity: A Guided Tour]]
- [ ] (Tomorrow) Start literature review for [[20240104-CUMMW|CUMMW]] Stage 2
- [ ] Ask to join recovery WhatsApp group

---
# Notes

---
# Media log

The Visionaries | Wolfram Eilenberger | Book
- Currently about 100 pages in.
- Not sure the nonfiction format is a good use of my time, or the vignettes from their lives.
- Still, useful to put these ideas in context – probably would be getting more out of this if I were familiar with the ideas in the first place.
- Excited to chart their intellectual developments!

Break.up | Joanna Walsh | Book
- DNF at about 40 pages in, found the writing insufferable. Pseudo-philosophical babbling. To do philosophy is to let it imbue your existence; this reads like offhand, fake-deep ramblings about the world.
- Attempt at reading contemporary fiction.
- “Essay as novel” is also a difficult genre, really rides on the strength of ideas; Walsh’s just weren’t engaging or original.
- Maybe would have been more captivating if I had actually experienced a digital love.