---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-08T21:32:08-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] Week 2: Identifying and Changing Patterns
>**Intentions:**
>- Discover what worked from new routines, as well as what challenges came from them.
>- Learn more about what eating routines work, gain more awareness around my habits, and continue making progress away from behaviors.
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Review my biggest challenge with interrupting my behavior pattern and readjust based on what worked and didn’t work.
>2. Make any adjustments needed to eating patterns.

> Weekly goals:
> 1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
> 2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

**Goal 1:** Use the pause method every time I get an urge, reminding myself that relapsing is a choice.
1. I think I will be saying the same thing every day. But this is the easiest *actionable* step for me to take, and this will be the most immediate step to help me be better. I know that when I do not pause, it is because I do not want to confront the cognitive dissonance that pausing will bring me as my rational mind fights with my pleasure-seeking, habitual urge. Even with full permission to binge, that is still such an uncomfortable prospect for me that I skip the pause. Pausing successfully will be a major step in my recovery—it’s a way to demonstrate to myself that I do *want* to recover, beyond just an ability to.
2. **Action items:**
	1. Journal about where I can implement the pause during my binge and purge pattern.
	2. Practice pausing throughout my day when I *don’t* have urges: after writing this journal, while switching between tasks, while getting too involved or frustrated with a task (you know how this feels), and whenever I haven’t taken a break from my screen in a while.
	3. As much as I can, whenever I pause, write down how I felt during and after the action, as well as anything I learned.
3. **Intentional thoughts:**
	1. I am observant of my mental and physical needs.
	2. Pausing allows me to determine what I need most in the moment.
	3. Pausing shows me that I have control over my life, both inside and outside the context of bulimia.
	4. I can pace myself without getting swept up in my tasks and feelings.

**Goal 2:** Spend a majority of evenings without relapsing.
1. I want to make the most of the modeling workshop opportunity. I especially want to show up for my team, both now and in the actual competition. I want to gain as many skills as I can this month to do well.
2. **Action items:**
	1. I will make sure I am meeting all my physical needs to be the most productive I can—especially eating enough and eating consistently.
	2. I will work efficiently and not make things overly complicated for myself.
	3. I will pace myself with work and not burn out early in the day.
3. **Intentional thoughts:**
	1. I am excited for this opportunity to learn practical skills.
	2. The creativity involved in modeling is really fun.

**Goal 3:** Wake up at 9 a.m. at the latest each day.
1. I feel much better waking up in the morning and having time to myself. I feel ready to take on the day now.
2. **Action items:**
	1. Set alarm for the next morning.
	2. Do not drink caffeine in the afternoon.
	3. When ready to wind down for bed, let myself wind down for bed!
3. **Intentional thoughts:**
	1. I love having a set routine for my mornings.
	2. I am excited for the chance to read more before bed.

> Themed journal question: What are points you can pause during this binge and purge pattern?

- When I first feel the urge come up, instead of trying to suppress the urge and focus harder on what I am doing. I should stop doing the task at hand entirely to pause.
- When I am physically in the kitchen and about to reach for food.
- After preparing the food and before taking a bite, if applicable. It is not wasteful for me to throw out the food since I was going to purge it anyway. This is a small sacrifice in the context of recovery.
- Whenever I get the feeling that I am not physically hungry. Here, I pause to figure out if the food is still nourishing me or if I am eating mechanically.
- Whenever I find myself reaching for another piece of gum due to oral fixation. Am I just trying to compensate for an urge to binge?

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Finish [[20240104-CUMMW|CUMMW]] Stage 1
	- [x] Finish replicating part 3 – bootstrap method
	- [x] Replicate part 5 – spherical transformation and LSTM
	- [x] Write up results

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [x] Fill out daily journal thoroughly
- [ ] Start drafting research proposal for [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]]
- [x] Tidy up – throw out trash, dry and put away laundry
- [ ] Take notes on judges’ comments rubric
## Future file

[[2024-01-07]]
- [ ] Update [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]] resume to include [[20240104-CUMMW|CUMMW]]
- [ ] Make a vision board for 2024 or January
- [ ] Change jars for oil paint supplies

---
# Notes

- Spent a cumulative 7-8 hours finishing up [[20240104-CUMMW|CUMMW]] Stage 1! Won’t have to think about this until tomorrow night at the earliest.
- Tomorrow, I need to write my SFI research proposal. I will plan to revise and submit on Wednesday.

---
# Media log

The Sailor Who Fell from Grace With the Sea | Yukio Mishima | Book
- Deeply psychological but not sure whose psychology.
- Both Noboru and Ryuji have a sense of immaturity; Ryuji’s obsession with “glory,” via his sailor lifestyle, is effectively a state of arrested development. His adulthood is managing a metacognitive perspective and moving on.
- The children are accurately able to perceive the “glory” delusion because they have parallel ideas, though of slightly different flavors. Ryuji’s is one of positivity, creation; the children’s is negativity, a reactionary force to the adult world.
- Something about an allegory for Westernization, though not at all perceived by Noboru. 