---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-02-27T08:04:38-08:00
---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] 🌱 Start drafting [[20240214-csuremm-project-proposal]]
	- [x] Finish reading saved documents
	- [ ] Aggregate main ideas into literature notes
	- [x] Make “mind map”

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [x] Review *Mrs. Dalloway* and *Thousand Cranes*
## Future file

[[2024-02-19]]

- [ ] Plan for Amsterdam trip with Maeve
- [x] Reach out to Seth about W-2 form and taking time off for Amsterdam
- [ ] Reach out to UW professor about auditing Bayesian Statistics, others
- [ ] Look into volunteering – art museum, science center, STEM education programs

[[2024-02-16]]

- [ ] Schedule piercing jewelry change appointment
- [ ] 🌱 Look into how to store/invest my savings


---
# Notes

- Da Vinci Resolve for video editing; probably need external hard drive for videos!
- Tomorrow I should:
	- Finish reading the paper I decided on, take some literature notes to help me parse. This will probably take me multiple hours, but I should aim to get it done before noon.
	- Draft the project proposal, then the personal statement to align with the proposal. I just need to get words on the page, can always polish later; I would prefer to have the two days to clean up my proposal.
	- Outside of this being my main priority, I still need to edit the math paper—dedicate Sunday to that at the latest.
- Finishing *Biography of X*
	- Later chapters felt redundant, there weren’t any more “secrets” being revealed; more a vehicle for mentioning various intellectual scenes in NYC through the middle and late 20th century. As such, it was thematically disjointed. The North/South alternative history split is truly only mentioned in the background later on as an abstract source of turmoil. 
	- Primary sources were modified and incorporated very naturally. Based on the point above, it was the prose that kept me going.
	- Things are opened and revealed too easily, more tell than show again—though the prose is well crafted, many quotables.

[[2024-02-16]]

- Deadlines and priorities
	1. March 1 – [[20240214-application-csuremm]]
	2. March 4 – Revised version of Gauss-Bonnet theorem due
	3. March (rolling) – Barnard Computing Fellow application
	4. May 20 (rolling?) – AI Camp Summer data science/machine learning intern
		- 💌 Fill out resume with an additional machine learning or data science project
		- ❗ Prepare for a technical interview
	5. March 31 – Lincoln Center internship application
		- Opens March 13

[[2024-02-14]]

- UW possible courses
	- [Introduction to Differential Equations](https://myplan.uw.edu/course/#/courses/MATH%20207?states=N4Ig7gDgziBcLADrgJYDsAmB7MAJApigOYAWALsrAEwAMA7AMwA0yY62YACllCmSljSVaAVgB0DSQyoAOKgBY69GgwC%2BIVUA) – c.f. [Ordinary Differential Equations](https://doc.sis.columbia.edu/#subj/MATH/V2030-20241-001/)
		- [UW course syllabus](https://sites.math.washington.edu/~aloveles/Math207Materials/syllabus.pdf) vs. [Columbia course syllabus](https://math.columbia.edu/~samdehority/files/2021-summer-ODEs/syllabus.pdf)– both use the Boyce, et al. text
		- Update: doesn’t count because only 3 credits
	- Could sit in for [Bayesian Statistics](https://myplan.uw.edu/course/#/courses/STAT%20544?id=4a6c425c-082e-482e-897e-70cfb1b26ad2&states=N4Ig7gDgziBcLADrgJYDsAmB7MAJApigOYAWALsrAJwAsATADTJjrZgAKWUKZKWalAMwBWAOwA6QVME0RABmEAOYbQC%2BIVUA) class?
	- Real analysis and algebra classes are too rudimentary to count for credit; look into computer science, applied math, statistics?
	- [Probability I](https://myplan.uw.edu/course/#/courses/STAT%20394?id=8e204807-3f97-4d16-a877-e12a74eef279&sectionFilters=%7B%22queryString%22%3A%22STAT%22%2C%22selectedDays%22%3A%5B%5D%2C%22startTime%22%3A%220630%22%2C%22endTime%22%3A%222230%22%2C%22openOnly%22%3Afalse%2C%22noEnrollmentRestrictionsOnly%22%3Afalse%2C%22noTbaOnly%22%3Afalse%2C%22pceOnly%22%3Afalse%2C%22instructorSearch%22%3Afalse%2C%22terms%22%3A%5B%2220243%22%2C%2220243A%22%2C%2220243B%22%5D%2C%22inPerson%22%3Afalse%7D&states=N4Ig7gDgziBcLADrgJYDsAmB7MAJApigOYAWALsrAIwDMAnDQDTJjrZgAKWUKZKWaSgCYAbFQB0NKTQAsNAKwAGeQA55dGQF8QmoA) and [Probability II](https://myplan.uw.edu/course/#/courses/STAT%20395?id=579c6d8f-39e4-489c-bcb4-fd1031c8885b&sectionFilters=%7B%22queryString%22%3A%22STAT%22%2C%22selectedDays%22%3A%5B%5D%2C%22startTime%22%3A%220630%22%2C%22endTime%22%3A%222230%22%2C%22openOnly%22%3Afalse%2C%22noEnrollmentRestrictionsOnly%22%3Afalse%2C%22noTbaOnly%22%3Afalse%2C%22pceOnly%22%3Afalse%2C%22instructorSearch%22%3Afalse%2C%22terms%22%3A%5B%2220243%22%2C%2220243A%22%2C%2220243B%22%5D%2C%22inPerson%22%3Afalse%7D) (summer) – c.f. [Probability Theory](https://doc.sis.columbia.edu/#subj/STAT/W4203-20241-001/)
	- [Statistical Inference](https://doc.sis.columbia.edu/#subj/STAT/W4204-20241-001/)
- Rabbit hole: [NeurIPS Intrinsically Motivated Open-ended Learning Workshop](https://nips.cc/virtual/2023/workshop/66534)
