---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-25T21:25:12-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] Week 4: Shifting My Identity and Mindset
>**Intention:** Clearly define who I am now, who I want to become, and discover how I can embody that future self now.
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Use the “Themed Journal Questions” to identify who I am currently, who I want to be, and how I can bridge that gap.
>2. Practice being the recovered me *now*.

> Weekly goals:
> 1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
> 2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

**Goal 1**: Commit to *abstinence* from purging.

**Goal 2:** Perform a deliberate night routine after I am done working for the day, before I do anything else to unwind.

**Goal 3:** Each day, I will do a bit of learning or work on something unrelated to CUMMW.

>Themed journal question:

- Who are you right now? How do you identify yourself? List everything that comes to mind.
- Think about the future recovered you. Who are they, how do they think, and how do they behave? (there can be overlap between who you are right now and who you want to be)
- How do they identify themselves?
- What thoughts and behaviors need to change for you to become closer to that future?
- What thoughts and behaviors will help you embody the future you right now?

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Recovery group coaching weekly check-in
- [ ] Draft 1-2 more responses for [[20231219-application-break-through-tech-ai]]
- [x] Add to [[20240104-CUMMW|CUMMW]] Stage 3

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

## Future file

---
# Notes

- Working on setting up Python backend via Django for [[20240116-copycat-implementation]]

---
# Media log
