---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-02-23T15:13:57-08:00
---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] 🌱 More literature review for [[20240214-csuremm-project-proposal]]; make literature notes?

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [ ] Review for *Mrs. Dalloway*

## Future file

- [ ] Review for *Nausea*
- [ ] Journal about recent activities – reading, Ben Franklin group, Corvus

[[2024-02-19]]

- [ ] Plan for Amsterdam trip with Maeve
- [ ] Reach out to Seth about W-2 form and taking time off for Amsterdam
- [ ] Reach out to UW professor about auditing Bayesian Statistics, others
- [ ] Look into volunteering – art museum, science center, STEM education programs

[[2024-02-16]]

- [ ] Schedule piercing jewelry change appointment
- [ ] 🌱 Look into how to store/invest my savings

---
# Notes

- Possible research directions:
	- Theory of mind – richer perceptual data, like used with babies? What variations to try and model?
	- Joint physical and social reasoning
		- Using physics for both baseline and cost functions
		- Effort related to force or distance – Liu, Ullman, Tenenbaum, Spelke 2017
		- Sosa, Ullman, Tenenbaum, Gershman, & Gerstenberg 2021
- Data source: The Moral Machine Experiment!

[[2024-02-23]]

- Papers and connections
	- [[Ullman, Tomer]], [[Tenenbaum, Josh]] – [Bayesian Models of Conceptual Development: Learning as Building Models of the World](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/41b4/208497ea832b59a241708c3fe4b17973175d.pdf?_gl=1*1fny988*_ga*MTMxODU2MDc1LjE3MDg0MDAyNjI.*_ga_H7P4ZT52H5*MTcwODYzOTU0Ny42LjEuMTcwODYzOTcyNS4xNS4wLjA.)
		- Concept learning, Lake et al. 2015
		- Counterfactual reasoning, Gerstenberg & Tenenbaum 2017
		- Action understanding or intuitive psychology, Baker et al. 2017, Jara-Ettinger et al. 2016
		- Minimal nativism and core knowledge, Lake et al. 2017
		- Working computational models of core knowledge, Smith et al. 2019 & 2020
	- Applied Bayesian model for theory of mind
		- Children: Jara-Ettinger, Floyd, Tenenbaum, & Schulz, 2017
		- Action vs. planning: Jara-Ettinger, Schulz, and Tenenbaum (2020)
		- Uncertainty: Baker, Jara-Ettinger, Saxe, and Tenenbaum (2017)
			- Any other similar behavioral studies to adapt? Accounting for some data with more accuracy?
		- Recent work has found initial evidence that inferences about types of minds can be expressed as Bayesian inference of a space of planning and decision-models of varying complexity (Burger & Jara-Ettinger, 2020). More research is needed in characterizing the variability in the different types of minds that we can represent, and formalizing this space to explain how people can jointly infer another agent’s type of mind as well as their mental states.
		- “An Experimental Study of Apparent Behavior” (Heider & Simmel, 1944)
- Technical resources:
	- Probabilistic Models of Cognition textbook: https://probmods.org/


[[2024-02-16]]

- Deadlines and priorities
	1. March 1 – [[20240214-application-csuremm]]
	2. March 4 – Revised version of Gauss-Bonnet theorem due
	3. May 20 (rolling?) – AI Camp Summer data science/machine learning intern
		- 💌 Fill out resume with an additional machine learning or data science project
		- ❗ Prepare for a technical interview
	4. March 31 – Lincoln Center internship application
		- Opens March 13

[[2024-02-14]]

- UW possible courses
	- [Introduction to Differential Equations](https://myplan.uw.edu/course/#/courses/MATH%20207?states=N4Ig7gDgziBcLADrgJYDsAmB7MAJApigOYAWALsrAEwAMA7AMwA0yY62YACllCmSljSVaAVgB0DSQyoAOKgBY69GgwC%2BIVUA) – c.f. [Ordinary Differential Equations](https://doc.sis.columbia.edu/#subj/MATH/V2030-20241-001/)
		- [UW course syllabus](https://sites.math.washington.edu/~aloveles/Math207Materials/syllabus.pdf) vs. [Columbia course syllabus](https://math.columbia.edu/~samdehority/files/2021-summer-ODEs/syllabus.pdf)– both use the Boyce, et al. text
		- Update: doesn’t count because only 3 credits
	- Could sit in for [Bayesian Statistics](https://myplan.uw.edu/course/#/courses/STAT%20544?id=4a6c425c-082e-482e-897e-70cfb1b26ad2&states=N4Ig7gDgziBcLADrgJYDsAmB7MAJApigOYAWALsrAJwAsATADTJjrZgAKWUKZKWalAMwBWAOwA6QVME0RABmEAOYbQC%2BIVUA) class?
	- Real analysis and algebra classes are too rudimentary to count for credit; look into computer science, applied math, statistics?
	- [Probability I](https://myplan.uw.edu/course/#/courses/STAT%20394?id=8e204807-3f97-4d16-a877-e12a74eef279&sectionFilters=%7B%22queryString%22%3A%22STAT%22%2C%22selectedDays%22%3A%5B%5D%2C%22startTime%22%3A%220630%22%2C%22endTime%22%3A%222230%22%2C%22openOnly%22%3Afalse%2C%22noEnrollmentRestrictionsOnly%22%3Afalse%2C%22noTbaOnly%22%3Afalse%2C%22pceOnly%22%3Afalse%2C%22instructorSearch%22%3Afalse%2C%22terms%22%3A%5B%2220243%22%2C%2220243A%22%2C%2220243B%22%5D%2C%22inPerson%22%3Afalse%7D&states=N4Ig7gDgziBcLADrgJYDsAmB7MAJApigOYAWALsrAIwDMAnDQDTJjrZgAKWUKZKWaSgCYAbFQB0NKTQAsNAKwAGeQA55dGQF8QmoA) and [Probability II](https://myplan.uw.edu/course/#/courses/STAT%20395?id=579c6d8f-39e4-489c-bcb4-fd1031c8885b&sectionFilters=%7B%22queryString%22%3A%22STAT%22%2C%22selectedDays%22%3A%5B%5D%2C%22startTime%22%3A%220630%22%2C%22endTime%22%3A%222230%22%2C%22openOnly%22%3Afalse%2C%22noEnrollmentRestrictionsOnly%22%3Afalse%2C%22noTbaOnly%22%3Afalse%2C%22pceOnly%22%3Afalse%2C%22instructorSearch%22%3Afalse%2C%22terms%22%3A%5B%2220243%22%2C%2220243A%22%2C%2220243B%22%5D%2C%22inPerson%22%3Afalse%7D) (summer) – c.f. [Probability Theory](https://doc.sis.columbia.edu/#subj/STAT/W4203-20241-001/)
	- [Statistical Inference](https://doc.sis.columbia.edu/#subj/STAT/W4204-20241-001/)
- Rabbit hole: [NeurIPS Intrinsically Motivated Open-ended Learning Workshop](https://nips.cc/virtual/2023/workshop/66534)

---
# Media log

Mrs. Dalloway | Virginia Woolf | Book
- Some preliminary thoughts before I write a full review!
- Compared with existentialism I’ve been reading; while existentialism’s entire premise that people are nothing outside of their actions, Woolf’s story, which is nothing but the interiority of various figures, is almost the direct opposite. 
- Eagleton on Woolf ([[How to Read Literature]] 65, 67, 69, 110, 191; Mrs. Dalloway on 64):
	- [[2013-eagleton-how-to-read-literature]]
	- “Modernist novel…single, solitary consciousness.”
	- “Concept of identity is in crisis.” Realism depicts people as continuous, part of a “coherent evolution,” people as the agents of their own identities (but isn’t this what existentialism circles back to?)
	- Character “disintegrates,” character is consciousness itself; “having too little identity can be quite as disabling as having too much.”
	- “The true protagonist is not this or that character, but language itself.”
	- *Not* “credible, fully-rounded individuals” lol.