---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-03-19T12:25:50-07:00
---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] Start CSC computing fellow application

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [ ] Journal about the past few days
- [ ] Look into regular therapy appointments


## Future file

- [ ] Plan for Southwest trip with Aidan

[[2024-03-15]]
- [ ] Finish reading Schopenhauer essay and make literature note
- [ ] Follow up with hotel about bank transfer
- [ ] 🌱 Look into local credit unions for starting a HYSA
- [ ] 🌱 Add goals to Vanguard account dashboard
- [ ] 🌱 Follow up with Plancher email on research leads

---
# Notes

- Notes on writing a senior thesis/getting research experience
	- Should find thesis advisor before fall of senior year; will spend approximately the year writing. Ideally, have a relationship with the professor beforehand, but not necessary.
	- Advisors are not restricted to Barnard/Columbia
	- Research can count as an elective towards the major requirements (limitations?)
	- Potential mentors: Kriegsorte, Lila Davachi, Wei Ji Ma (mentored in the past, Hannah?)

[[2024-03-18]]

- **Questions for Prof. Morrison meeting**
	- What is the process of choosing a senior advisor?
	- Should student have pre-existing relationship with advisor (i.e., already works in a lab)?
	- Does the advisor have to be a Columbia affiliate, based in NYC, etc.?
	- Any connections to people doing computational cognitive science in the city?