---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-06-10T11:33:07-06:00
---
>[!example] Reminder
>Be the most excellent version of myself I can be, one day at a time. If I look back on today specifically, I want to be proud of what I did and who I am.

# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Finish literature note on [[2-SOMEDAY/2023-wolpert-kinney-stochastic-model-of-math-and-science|Wolpert & Kinney (2023)]], understanding thoroughly enough to discuss in tomorrow’s meeting with James and Andrew
	- [x] Be able to verbally define SMS
- [ ] Other preparation for tomorrow’s meeting – sketch discussion topics, look into preliminary information


----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [ ] Send a more clarifying email to Andrew and James, including formal models of scientific (dis)agreement cited in [[2-SOMEDAY/2023-wolpert-kinney-stochastic-model-of-math-and-science|Wolpert & Kinney (2023)]]

## Future file

**Work and career**
- [ ] Reach out to Tony/Anna/Marina about reading recommendations/group
	- [ ] Follow up with Tony about “semantic drift” book, aesthetics of mathematics
	- [ ] Ask Anna about ideas in history of mathematics
- [ ] Familiarize myself with profiles of SFI faculty, see who to connect with

**Personal**
- [ ] Start animating Ted Chiang’s “Exhalation”
- [ ] Look into or note the following concepts:
	- [ ] Multi-cellular life as a “charismatic center”
	- [ ] Semantic drift
	- [ ] Chiang’s slide about “extrapolation using poetic license”
	- [ ] Assembly theory in biology
	- [ ] Mathematical universe hypothesis
- [ ] Import notes for the following concepts:
	- [ ] Continuum of democracy
	- [ ] Gathering insights from modeling research application, currently in Overleaf

**Readings**
- [ ] Relevant links from “Just ML” community lecture
- [ ] Charles Ginzburg, “To Kill a Chinese Man”
- [ ] 


---
# Notes

#### Project meeting with James and Andrew

```
To be honest, my view of these things is that Marina's style of model is much better for explaining very local patterns of scientific innovation at short time scales in specific small groups of people.

I think the factors that shape scientific innovation over the long term can be described without recourse to the details of what scientists specifically do at local time scales, but instead how entire societies structure interactions and the flow of knowlege between people generally. There are some deeper reasons for this opinion that have to do with hierarchical structure, cultural selection, and loose coupling that I'm happy to discuss in person if you are interested.
```

- “Marina’s model works better for explaining local patterns of scientific innovation.”
	- Sounds like my original goal!
	- Is it possible to make such a local extension with a large-scale descriptive model?
- Slides: most innovation comes from small tweaks, not paradigm shifts.
	- Also my goal, to model how tweaks might occur as a result of individual reasoning and social interactions.
- Project parameters
	- Local interactions, small tweaks
	- Implement a binary choice? How to do so if belief in theory is probabilistic? Take on the distribution of another if the belief is stronger?
	- Keep the broadness, or need to make more specific definitions?
	- Adding a third SMS?
		- Introduce some more restricted definitions to account for different types of interaction
		- First, how to account for them working on the same question