---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-15T11:38:53-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20240107-bb-program-week-2|Week 2: Identifying and Changing Patterns]]
>**Intentions:**
>- Discover what worked from new routines, as well as what challenges came from them.
>- Learn more about what eating routines work, gain more awareness around my habits, and continue making progress away from behaviors.
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Review my biggest challenge with interrupting my behavior pattern and readjust based on what worked and didn’t work.
>2. Make any adjustments needed to eating patterns.

> Weekly goals:
> 1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
> 2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

**Goal 1:** Use the pause method every time I get an urge, reminding myself that relapsing is a choice.

**Goal 2:** Spend a majority of evenings without relapsing.

**Goal 3:** Wake up at 9 a.m. at the latest each day.


> Themed journal question: 

- What are points you can pause during this pattern?
- How is eating consistently and eating enough helping you, and is there anything you need to adjust in your eating pattern?
- What thoughts and feelings encourage you to binge and purge?
- How do you want to intentionally think and act when urges come up, regardless of your initial reaction?
- If urges were a separate person, how would you speak to them?

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Work to completing [[20240104-CUMMW|CUMMW]] Stage 2
	- [x] EDA with word attributes
	- [x] Work on implementing Bayesian neural network

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [ ] Start [[20240112-application-cdt-technology-internship]]
	- [ ] Take basic notes on application materials
	- [ ] Brainstorm essay question responses
- [ ] Email weekly check-in for [[20240107-bb-program-week-2|Week 2: Identifying and Changing Patterns]]
- [ ] Do weekly recovery journal review
## Future file


---
# Notes

---
# Media log
