---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-04T13:33:03-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20231231-bb-program-week-1|Week 1: Hit the Ground Running]]
>**Intention:** Establish new baseline eating and behavior habit patterns. Remove any stimulus that’s not helpful and create the optimal recovery environment within the life I already live.
>
>**Call theme:** Building Your Recovery Protocol + Group Coaching
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Define and practice a recovery protocol daily.
>2. Pick eating habits (how to eat enough and consistently) and stick to it as much as possible.
>3. Increase friction between myself and binging.
>4. Clean up environmental triggers (scale, social media, pause diet content, put away triggering items).

> Weekly goals:
> 1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
> 2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

**Goal 1:** Use the *pause* method every time I get urges this week.
1. I know this builds cognitive dissonance and makes me uncomfortable, which is why I don’t really like to do it—too much self awareness. I think that pausing really will be the key to breaking the cycle for me.
2. **Action items:**
	1. Commit to doing pausing with no expectations about what happens next.
	2. Listen to the “urges” audio saved on phone.
	3. Reflect and journal after each relapse.
3. **Intentional thoughts:**
	1. I can always purge after I pause. It will be my own choice.

**Goal 2:** Wake up at or before 9:00 AM each day, again.
1. I am going to classes tomorrow, and I need to be up early for them. The day after that, I will have a group coaching call, which I will also need to be up early for. I need to get back on my regular sleep schedule—for those few days, I was happier than I’d been in a while.
2. **Action items:**
	1. Go straight home after work. Everything else can wait until tomorrow.
	2. After getting home, do my night routine before anything else.
	3. Commit to staying at home before all stores close.
	4. Set my alarms for the morning.

**Goal 3:** Draft all my essay responses for [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]].
1. This research opportunity matters a lot to me! I want at least a few days next week to polish my responses.
2. **Action items:**
	1. Write my “collaboration” portion today.
	2. Start to outline the research proposal, and only do additional research if it is in a cohesive direction.
3. **Thoughts:**
	1. Any writing is better than no writing.
	2. Revision will be inevitable, and I am excited to be able to revise!

> Themed journal question: What basic eating plan will I follow this week?

- I am going to eat my safe meal—egg or tofu and avocado—once I get truly hungry after I wake up. Then I am going to take a 30+ minute walk to help me digest and distract from urges.
- I will eat a small meal for dinner, later at night, and then walk to get rid of triggering feelings of fullness.
- If I am still hungry at a very late time, I will have a protein bar.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] Work on [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]]
	- [x] Draft “collaboration” portion
	- [ ] Make a mind map of my research proposal

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [x] Tidy up my space – dishes, clean bathroom, take out trash, pick up clothes
- [x] Wrap David’s Christmas gift

## Future file

[[2023-12-31]]
- [ ] Make a small coding project to put on application resume
	- [ ] Make a basic [Markov chain model](https://builtin.com/machine-learning/markov-chain)
	- [ ] Play with GFlowNet model, empowerment
	- [ ] Make Hodgkin-Huxley Colab app
	- [ ] Make a Python implementation of Copycat
- [ ] Watch/listen to interviews about *Thinking Fast and Slow*

---
# Notes

---
# Media log
