---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-23T20:21:09-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] Week 4: Shifting My Identity and Mindset
>**Intention:** Clearly define who I am now, who I want to become, and discover how I can embody that future self now.
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Use the “Themed Journal Questions” to identify who I am currently, who I want to be, and how I can bridge that gap.
>2. Practice being the recovered me *now*.

> Weekly goals:
> 1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
> 2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

**Goal 1**: Commit to *abstinence* from purging.
1. The vast majority of the time, I binge so that I can purge. I know that if I cannot purge, the appeal of a binge will be far outweighed by the consequences. The only way to break the pattern is to stop viewing purging as an option.
2. **Action items:**
	1. Eat mindfully and practice pausing when I feel urges to binge.
	2. Do not indulge thoughts of purging. Instead, treat them as neurological dust and brush them off.
3. **Intentional thoughts:**
	1. No matter what I do, I am not allowed to purge.
	2. I know I am scared, but I have no reason to be. Nothing bad will happen to me if I don’t binge.

**Goal 2:** Perform a deliberate night routine after I am done working for the day, before I do anything else to unwind.
1. I need to set myself up for success later this week by adjusting to this routine now, when it’s easier, rather than after work on Thursday through Saturday.
2. **Action items:**
	1. Pause when I’m feeling tired, and be honest with myself about what I can and can’t do productively for the rest of the evening.
3. **Intentional thoughts:**
	1. Think of all the things I can do after my night routine: read, watch a movie, comb out my sherpa blanket.

**Goal 3:** Each day, I will do a bit of learning or work on something unrelated to CUMMW.

>Themed journal question: Who are you right now? How do you identify yourself? List everything that comes to mind.

- I am a daughter.
- I am almost a full adult, but I feel like I’ve regressed since being at my parents’ house. I feel childish.
- I am a restaurant host. I am one of the youngest ones there, so I still feel like I have a separate “child” status in comparison.
- I am a math major.
- I like to read.
- I collect ideas.
- I am bulimic. I spend almost all my time either binging and purging, or worrying about binging and purging.
- I am neurodivergent, but not sure of what flavor.
- I am a little off-putting.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Complete my recovery weekly review *carefully*
- [ ] Make progress on [[20240104-CUMMW|CUMMW]] Stage 3
	- [x] Get point prediction for EERIE
	- [x] Make plan for evaluating uncertainty in guess distribution model
	- [x] Write up completed sections for final paper

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [x] Write [[book-reviews]] for *The Sea, the Sea*
- [x] Complete my recovery daily journal entries
- [x] Pick up the laundry in my room

- [ ] Continue brainstorming answers for [[20231219-application-break-through-tech-ai]]

## Future file

- [ ] Return and retrieve library books
- [x] Read Kaitlin’s internship application

---
# Notes

---
# Media log

2023’s Biggest Breakthroughs in Math, Physics, and Computer Science | Quanta Magazine | Videos
- Interesting how the process of discovery in each field differs—math feels almost serendipitous; physics requires heavy planning and collaboration, theory and engineering must coincide perfectly; computer science theory and engineering develops at different rates, with one playing catch-up to the other.
- #queue Hyper-dimensional computing! A combination of statistical and symbolic AI?