---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-23T20:44:50-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] Week 4: Shifting My Identity and Mindset
>**Intention:** Clearly define who I am now, who I want to become, and discover how I can embody that future self now.
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Use the “Themed Journal Questions” to identify who I am currently, who I want to be, and how I can bridge that gap.
>2. Practice being the recovered me *now*.

> Weekly goals:
> 1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
> 2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

**Goal 1**: Commit to *abstinence* from purging.

**Goal 2:** Perform a deliberate night routine after I am done working for the day, before I do anything else to unwind.

**Goal 3:** Each day, I will do a bit of learning or work on something unrelated to CUMMW.

>Themed journal question:

- Who are you right now? How do you identify yourself? List everything that comes to mind.
- Think about the future recovered you. Who are they, how do they think, and how do they behave? (there can be overlap between who you are right now and who you want to be)
- How do they identify themselves?
- What thoughts and behaviors need to change for you to become closer to that future?
- What thoughts and behaviors will help you embody the future you right now?

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] Start drafting answers for [[20231219-application-break-through-tech-ai]]

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [ ] Watch recording of CUMMW speaker call
- [x] Update my daily media log
- [x] Sort through Readwise Sync folder

## Future file

- [ ] Take notes for [[2009-mitchell-complexity-a-guided-tour|Complexity: A Guided Tour]]
- [x] Sort through Readwise inbox
- [ ] Update highlights in *A Pattern Language*

---
# Notes

---
# Media log

##### [Useful Idiots](https://thepointmag.com/criticism/useful-idiots/) | Frank Guan | Essay

Summary: A review of Elif Batuman’s *The Idiot* that comments on the tension between “program” (i.e., MFA) fiction, contemporary autofiction, and the great 18th and 19th century novels.

Notes:

>The dignity of the novel lay in its refusal to have something so vulgar as a direction.


- The narrative of *The Idiot* is detached from everything besides the main character’s solipsism—she is hardly buffeted by the world, makes observations without changing herself.
- In contrast, “realism” lies not in the details of literal daily life, but a “a triple collision between the individual conscience, the society in which the idiot operates, and the ideology (conquistador chivalry, Promethean science, Gnostic materialism, Napoleonic romanticism, revolutionary communism, Gatsbian romanticism, revolutionary communism, white supremacy) that would shape conscience and society according to its own dictates.”
- Novels are written for contemporary audiences; they resonate into the future to the extent that the underlying cultural themes do.
	- Batuman’s novel suffers from being chained to the author’s person in the same way that autofiction does.

>To be fair, the horizons of collective belief were particularly unpromising for Batuman and her generation, who came of age and made careers *during a period where it was easy to conclude that there was nothing bigger than the self left to believe in.*

>Autofiction, a sort of aesthetic edition of careerism, was the logical endpoint of realism’s exclusive valorization of individual experience: once all other recreations expose their artifice and exhaust their charm, what is left except to chart one’s own advancement through a world as fixed as it is real?

