---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-07T23:58:40-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20240107-bb-program-week-2|Week 2: Identifying and Changing Patterns]]
>**Intentions:**
>- Discover what worked from new routines, as well as what challenges came from them.
>- Learn more about what eating routines work, gain more awareness around my habits, and continue making progress away from behaviors.
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Review my biggest challenge with interrupting my behavior pattern and readjust based on what worked and didn’t work.
>2. Make any adjustments needed to eating patterns.

> Weekly goals:
> 1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
> 2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

**Goal 1:** Use the pause method every time I get an urge, reminding myself that relapsing is a choice.
1. This is the key to actually *doing the thing* and making lasting changes in my life. I can journal and intellectualize as much as I want, but the hardest part is taking action. Every time I implement the pause method, I am taking a step to getting the hard part over it.
2. **Action items:**
	1. Pause before even going to prepare food.
	2. Pause after preparing food, but before eating.
	3. Pause in the middle of eating.
	4. Jump into a comforting routine after eating, such as taking a walk.
3. **Intentional thoughts:**
	1. No matter what happens, I am committed to pausing at each step outlined above.
	2. I have absolutely no expectations for what happens afterwards. If I do all the steps, I am allowed to binge. Pausing does not mean that binging is off-limits for this evening.

**Goal 2:** Spend a majority of evenings without relapsing.
1. I have a lot of work I want to get done that is purposeful and will give me career direction. I do not want to waste my time being stuck with relapsing.
2. **Action items:**
	1. Eat closer to bedtime so I am not hungry as I try to sleep.
	2. Wind down with a book that I am excited about reading—don’t force myself to work late if I’m starting to feel tired.
	3. Take melatonin and calming supplements.
3. **Intentional thoughts:**
	1. I will feel so good tomorrow morning. I will wake up refreshed and ready to tackle the day.
	2. I have a lot to get done tomorrow, but this isn’t stressful, this is exciting. I want to show up the best I can.
	3. No matter how long it takes me to fall asleep tonight, I will still feel better than if I’d binged. First, I most likely will not be awake nearly as late. Second, even if I am sleep deprived, I will wake up tomorrow a better person.

**Goal 3:** Wake up at 9 a.m. at the latest each day.
1. I did not feel good waking up at 11 a.m. today. The day feels a lot shorter, and not going through a morning routine makes me feel incomplete, and slightly more likely to binge. I want to reset for the new week tomorrow.
2. **Action items:**
	1. This is really coupled with the previous goal, but winding down for bed an appropriate time.
3. **Intentional thoughts:**
	1. Getting to bed is an opportunity for me to read a book I am interested in—I’m excited to get to bed!
	2. Reading is more productive, spiritually fulfilling, and will make me feel far better than binging instead to fall asleep.


> Themed journal question: What is your binge and purge pattern? (includes cues, thoughts, emotions, and behaviors—the more detail the better)

- It is usually later in the day, and I am getting tired. My brain does not want to consider the tasks that I could be doing, whether that be more work or a nightly routine. I just want to skip it all and get rid of the current feeling of tiredness.
- I am further cued by being physically hungry. Physical hunger makes me nervous, because I know that I will have to confront the urge to binge during and after I eat, and I am afraid of the difficulty of sitting with it. The anxiety begins even when I’m just expecting the urge!
- If I have been at home all day and plan to eat dinner at home, I eat while anxious just to get it over with. This feels like blundering into the situation.
- If I am coming home from work, I am thinking about how much of a hassle it will be to go through my night routine and put away my clothes. I just want to teleport into the next day. To ease the difficulty, I want to eat something to help me get the job done.
- There often is a moment before I’ve even started eating when I’ve “decided” I want to relapse. At this point, I get out my smartphone (I feel a twinge of embarrassment because I make such a big deal of using the dumb phone, but my smartphone is serving precisely the same purpose it always has) and start to scroll on the familiar social media apps. I am reading desperately as I eat, then binge, so that I don’t have to think too hard about my actions.
- If I have begun eating without the intention to binge, I might relapse for two reasons: I have gotten too full, and the feeling of fullness is triggering me. I have to get rid of it somehow. Or, midway through eating, I decide that I don’t want to confront whatever comes after I finish eating. So I sabotage myself for the evening by continuing to eat. Once the “switch flips” into a binge session, I grab my phone, as before.
- I begin by eating vegetables and whole foods, as low calorie as possible. Once I am sufficiently full of those, or eaten all that I have access to, I change clothes and drive to the grocery store to get more processed binge foods.
- Nothing appeals to me when I go through the store aisles, so I half-heartedly select a few snacks and pastries. I am doing this because I know I need to purge, and the sugar will give me a sense of excitement and reward for the misery to come.
- I binge and purge repeatedly until the food is all gone. Each time, I am stretching my stomach further and further to its painful limits. I can’t think too hard about the risk of my stomach bursting, even though it is always on the back of my mind, because it will make me too anxious to purge.
- I turn on the fan in the bathroom and the tap, if my parents are awake. I binge in my room and waddle to the toilet once I am too full to eat anymore. I try to catch the crumbs by sitting on a towel, but some end up on the carpet.
- I am miserable as I binge. I try to make it a more pleasant experience by giving myself a chance to scroll and read everything online that I am usually too overstimulated or drained to tackle. I become even more overstimulated, and my mind feels as though it is in a haze.
- Once it is late enough, I purge for the last time and collapse into bed.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Fill out my daily and weekly journal with intention
- [ ] Finish replicating part 3 of original paper for [[20240104-CUMMW|CUMMW]]

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [x] Tidy up my space – clean bathroom, throw out trash, pick up laundry
- [x] Respond to Elliot’s questions about part 4
- [ ] Begin looking at part 5 of paper for [[20240104-CUMMW|CUMMW]]
- [ ] Start drafting research proposal for [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]]

## Future file

- [ ] Update [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]] resume to include [[20240104-CUMMW|CUMMW]]
- [ ] Make a vision board for 2024 or January

---
# Notes

---
# Media log
