---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-02T11:05:28-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20231231-bb-program-week-1|Week 1: Hit the Ground Running]]
>**Intention:** Establish new baseline eating and behavior habit patterns. Remove any stimulus that’s not helpful and create the optimal recovery environment within the life I already live.
>
>**Call theme:** Building Your Recovery Protocol + Group Coaching
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Define and practice a recovery protocol daily.
>2. Pick eating habits (how to eat enough and consistently) and stick to it as much as possible.
>3. Increase friction between myself and binging.
>4. Clean up environmental triggers (scale, social media, pause diet content, put away triggering items).

> What are my weekly goals?

1. Be relapse-free for the majority of the days in the week.
2. Wake up at or before 9:00 AM each day, again.
3. Draft all my essay responses for [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]].

> Why are my weekly goals important to me *today*?

1. There’s no better time to recover than the present (something about “the best time was x time ago, the second best time is now”). I also start group coaching tomorrow, and I want to go into it not burdened by a relapse the night before. Also, I want to make the most of my last “free” day in a while!
2. I enjoyed having the hours of 8-9 for me to let my brain wander and be interested in things. Waking up early despite having purged the night before also has me feeling *much* more ready for the task of recovery than waking up later. I am so happy that I did not disrupt this routine.
3. This task is starting to weigh on me and make me anxious (partially the reason I purged last night, even if it a small part). Making a little bit of progress will make me feel a lot happier.

> How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

1. *Be relapse-free for the majority of the days in the week.*
	1. Action items: Eat mindfully throughout the day. Eat something small close to bedtime so that I am not hungry when I go to bed. Wind down in the evening and let myself be tired.
	2. Intentional thoughts: I want to be prepared for tomorrow’s group coaching call. I’m excited to start the program and meet other people who are in recovery. I want my actions to align with that intention.
2. *Wake up at or before 9:00 AM each day, again.*
	1. Action items: I will wind down for bed without stressing about falling asleep. I will let tiredness come naturally. I will take calming supplements. I will walk outside throughout the day and get sunlight to set my circadian rhythm.
	2. Intentional thoughts: Purging will not tire me out, but make me stay up later. Sleep will come when it comes; worst comes to worst, I wake up a little more tired tomorrow. That just means I sleep better the next night.
3. *Draft all my essay responses for [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]].*
	1. Action items: Start aggregating my ideas. If I’m unable to write the main research proposal, I can take a break by writing the “collaboration” question.
	2. Intentional thoughts: There is no pressure to make things perfect. I can rewrite as many times as I need and discard the old drafts. The act of writing itself will help me clarify my ideas.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Clean up – change sheets, laundry, wash dishes
- [ ] Outline for SFI application research proposal
	- [ ] Draw a mind map for two distinct projects
	- [ ] Make a brain dump of all topics and papers that have caught my interest
- [ ] Draft response for SFI application “collaboration” question

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [x] Olaplex hair and shower
- [x] Finish listening to [GFlowNets](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M49TMqK5uCE) interview, take notes along with transcript
- [x] Respond to Galileo chats
- [x] Respond to Ken Block email, make dinner plans
- [x] Ask parents to stop buying snacks

## Future file

[[2023-12-31]]
- [ ] Make a small coding project to put on application resume
	- [ ] Make a basic [Markov chain model](https://builtin.com/machine-learning/markov-chain)
	- [ ] Play with GFlowNet model, empowerment
	- [ ] Make Hodgkin-Huxley Colab app
- [ ] Watch/listen to interviews about *Thinking Fast and Slow*

[[2023-12-27]]
- [x] Set up UW NetID

[[2023-12-26]]
- [ ] Schedule an appointment with Beyond Barnard for application review
- [ ] Mend socks

[[2023-12-24]]
- [ ] Read emails from Russ Warrick

---
# Notes

- Might be fun to start writing a retrospective on using my [[light-phone-diaries|Light Phone]].
	- Started outlining at [[20240101-light-phone-diaries-log]]
- Like the [[1994-thurston-on-proof-and-progress-in-mathematics|Thurston (1994)]], mathematically equivalent ways of thinking about self-attention/transformers! https://twitter.com/jeffreyseely/status/1661615923109969921 – possibly a good resource for when I make a permanent note on Transformer models.
	- In general, Twitter bookmarks will also need to be gone through.
- Added to my note on [[Luddite|Luddites]], have another source queued up in Readwise (sigh).
- I would be interested in auditing psychology, architecture, philosophy classes. However, the psychology classes seem to be major-only.
	- Additionally, to learn more about moral philosophy (or at least get a structured syllabus view), I can go here: https://canvas.uw.edu/courses/1548867/assignments/syllabus

---
# Media log

[Multi Agent Learning - Lancelot Da Costa](https://youtu.be/qxEfcrmTWO4?si=WKC1rKm3TeMrbP9l) | Machine Learning Street Talk | Podcast
- [[Tenenbaum, Josh|Josh Tenenbaum]] is well known for cognitive science approach to developing AI
	- “Bottom up” approach using behavioral data
- Costa strongly believes that core knowledge (priors) is the key to human-like reasoning
	- Paper – Six systems of core knowledge
- Deep learning may be needed to scale up FEP, integrate with core knowledge – three pillars

[Yoshua Bengio: System 2 GFlowNets](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q1fw75InQZE&t=4s) | Santa Fe Institute | Video
- Goal is to put human inductive biases/priors into ML
- ML has a problem with OOD generalization
- Conscious processing helps humans deal with OOD situations; we think hard to solve new problems, paying conscious attention
- System 1 vs. System 2
	- Intuitive, fast, unconscious, parallel, implicit, current DL
- Most knowledge cannot be explained; concepts that are consciously manipulated are ones we can name with language – these we can reason OOD
- Modules + global workspace paper showed bottleneck helped OOD tasks
- GFlowNets “sample like thoughts”
	- Each “selection” of the workspace adds another node
	- Action = choosing the next piece, state = current graph representing recent thoughts.
	- GFlowNet abilities specified at 28:00.