---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-06-28T13:32:07-06:00
---
>[!example] Reminder
>Be the most excellent version of myself I can be, one day at a time. If I look back on today specifically, I want to be proud of what I did and who I am.

# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Start topic modeling
	- [x] Filter and remove top words
	- [x] Format as rows
- [x] Draft project abstract

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today



## Future file

---
# Media log

---
# Notes

#### Topic modeling

```
bin\mallet import-file --input data\comments_mallet.tsv --output test.mallet --keep-sequence 
```

~~Mallet with no label or name:~~
```
bin\mallet import-file --input data\comments_mallet_noIndex.txt --output test.mallet --label 0 --name 0 --data 1
```

Train topics
```
bin\mallet train-topics --input test.mallet --num-topics 100 --output-state test100.gz --output-doc-topics testTopics100.txt --output-topic-keys testKeys100.txt
```

#### Project abstract

Deductive reasoning is at the core of mathematical practice, yet the cognitive mechanisms behind how mathematicians successfully conduct research remains unclear. Most attempts to understand deductive mathematical reasoning rely on individual case studies or analysis of mathematical proofs, neither of which directly study the informal cognitive processes in a quantifiable manner. Further, although deduction plays a prominent role in communicating mathematical ideas, we know mathematicians are willing to accept logical gaps when establishing confidence about a proof where premises have been accepted by the larger community, suggesting that collective knowledge plays an important role in grounding individual belief. Thus, it is useful to study deductive reasoning as a social practice, treating a group of mathematicians as a single epistemic agent and interactions between people as collective cognitive processes.

In this work, we will investigate how individual contributions serve different cognitive functions and ultimately impact the success of collaborative mathematical problem-solving. Specifically, we will use data from the online, crowdsourced Polymath Projects, in which collaborators used blog comments to work through difficult math problems. To taxonomize different cognitive “moves,” we will use a Bayesian topic model to infer hidden reasoning patterns, like probabilistic reasoning or example-giving. We are also interested in whether collaborators specialized in the types of contributions they made, as well as the time-dependent relationships between contributions such as a reply chain. Eventually, we hope to connect cognitive content from the informal comments to deliberate deductive steps in the final Polymath proofs.

Our approach gives an empirical method of studying how mathematicians work and reason in a naturalistic setting—that is, with their peers. We hope work will give new insights into the dialogical patterns of collective reasoning.