---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-06T00:03:19-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20231231-bb-program-week-1|Week 1: Hit the Ground Running]]
>**Intention:** Establish new baseline eating and behavior habit patterns. Remove any stimulus that’s not helpful and create the optimal recovery environment within the life I already live.
>
>**Call theme:** Building Your Recovery Protocol + Group Coaching
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Define and practice a recovery protocol daily.
>2. Pick eating habits (how to eat enough and consistently) and stick to it as much as possible.
>3. Increase friction between myself and binging.
>4. Clean up environmental triggers (scale, social media, pause diet content, put away triggering items).

> Weekly goals:
> 1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
> 2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

**Goal 1:** Use the *pause* method every time I get urges this week.

**Goal 2:** Wake up at or before 9:00 AM each day, again.

**Goal 3:** Draft all my essay responses for [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]].


> Themed journal question: 

- What urge protocol am I choosing to implement this week?
- What basic eating plan will I follow this week?
- What about my environment encourages behaviors or makes it more difficult to not engage in behaviors?
- How can I make recovery as easy as possible for myself?
- How can I increase friction between me and my behaviors?

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] Read through winning solutions of MCM C for [[20240104-CUMMW|CUMMW]]
- [x] Recovery group coaching weekly check-in
- [x] Tidy up my space – pick up clothes, clean bathroom, do laundry, wash dishes

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [x] Get gas – leave at about the same time as usual for work
- [ ] Fill out recovery journal
- [x] Nail care

## Future file

- [ ] Update [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]] resume to include [[20240104-CUMMW|CUMMW]]
- [ ] Watch CUMMW recorded meeting
- [x] Tidy up more thoroughly – change sheets, pick up small trash around room

---
# Notes

---
# Media log
