---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-08-09T11:39:33-06:00
---
>[!example] Reminder
>Be the most excellent version of myself I can be, one day at a time. If I look back on today specifically, I want to be proud of what I did and who I am.

# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Draft [[ucr-final-abstract]]

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

## Future file

---
# Media log

---
# Notes

#### Final abstract 

> [!example] General abstract outline
> - \[BACKGROUND] A few (3–5) sentences that describe:
> 	- \[PROBLEM/QUESTION] The general problem/question that you want to solve/ understand/ answer/ develop theory for
> 	- \[IMPORTANCE] Why the problem/question is important
> 	- \[STATE OF THE FIELD] What is already known about the problem/question that is important background for your project
> 	- \[WHY NOT?] Why the problem/question has not already been solved/ understood/ answered
> - \[PROJECT GOAL]  One sentence that states specifically what you hope to solve/understand/answer with your project. (Often starts with something like “Here we will show…” or “In this work, we aim to…”)
> - \[SPECIFIC AIMS]  One sentence each per specific aim of your project that indicates the hypothesis or specific question you will test, or the argument you will make, and the approach you will use. Usually projects have two or three specific aims, but this is very project-dependent.
> 	- PS - This part is often the most difficult. The tricky part is deciding what constitutes a single aim. What may help is to think about it as the smallest unit that provides an answer to a question you have posed.
> - \[BROADER IMPACT] One or two sentences that provide an outlook about what this research means for the broader question you posed at the beginning, or for understanding other areas of science or society

Mathematics is a highly social practice, yet most accounts of mathematical discovery are subjective, introspective reports of individual cognition. Further, most artifacts of mathematical practice are polished proofs and papers that offer little insight into the underlying reasoning process. Fortunately, online forums provide a rich source of data for informal discussions and collaborative activity, including collaborative problem-solving. The Polymath Project, initially based at the blog of mathematician Tim Gowers, is an open opportunity for people to work together on advanced problems and open questions in mathematics by replying to each other in blog comments. 

In this project, we study collective mathematical reasoning by examining crowdsourced comments from the first Polymath problem, an original research effort for a new proof of the Hales-Jewett theorem. To quantify the content structure of each comment, we first filter for semantically significant words—words associated with distinct sub-problems, strategies, or mathematical objects—then fit a probabilistic topic model to represent each comment at multiple levels of semantic granularity: a set of 30 topics that captured language unique to each stage of the problem-solving process, and a reduction to 8 topics that matched real mathematical subfields like Fourier analysis and graph theory. We also use Jensen-Shannon divergence, an information-theoretic measure of distance, to generate a novel “topic diversity” value for the group of comments in a given problem-solving stage.

We find that collective information mining is a multi-scale phenomenon: diversity of the 8 coarse-grained topics decreases over time, indicating *exploitation* of a particular mathematical subfield, while the relative diversity of the 30 fined-grained topics increases as people *explore* over a more compact range of ideas. Relative diversity reaches its maximum toward the middle of the process, splitting the project into two distinct phases: coarse-grained exploitation with fine-grained exploration, then overall exploitation in later stages. 

Overall, our work introduces computational methods to characterize collective problem-solving behaviors from highly specialized semantic content. 

##### Marina’s version

Mathematics is a highly social practice, yet most accounts of mathematical discovery are subjective, introspective reports of individual cognition. Further, most artifacts of mathematical practice are polished proofs and papers that offer little insight into the underlying reasoning process. Fortunately, online forums provide a rich source of data for informal discussions and collaborative activity, including collaborative problem-solving. The Polymath Project, initially based at the blog of mathematician Tim Gowers, is an open opportunity for people to work together on advanced problems and open questions in mathematics by replying to each other in blog comments.

In this project, we study collective mathematical reasoning by examining comments from the first Polymath problem, an original research effort to develop a new proof of the Hales-Jewett theorem. To quantify the content structure of each comment, we first filter for semantically significant words, leaving words associated with distinct sub-problems, strategies, or mathematical ideas. Then, we fit a probabilistic topic model to represent each comment at multiple levels of semantic granularity: a set of 30 topics that captured language unique to each stage of the problem-solving process, and a coarse-grained set of 8 topics that matched real mathematical subfields like Fourier analysis and graph theory. We look at how “topic diversity” (Jensen-Shannon divergence) of the comments changes over time.

We find that the way mathematicians navigate ideas in the first Polymath problem is best characterized as a multi-scale phenomenon. Diversity of the comments over 8 coarse-grained mathematical topics decreases over time, indicating convergence on and exploitation of a particular mathematical subfield. However, the relative diversity of the comments over 30 fined-grained topics increases as mathematicians explore over a more compact space of ideas. Relative diversity reaches its maximum toward the middle of the process, splitting the project into two distinct phases: coarse-grained exploitation with fine-grained exploration, then overall exploitation in later stages.

Overall, our work introduces computational methods for characterizing collective reasoning in highly specialized domains.

#### Future directions from Simon

```
BTW — here’s a hypothesis we might explore in a future development. Polymath One is a successful project — and it is certainly following a “logical” information space mining practice; multiscale explore-exploit. Perhaps this is common to the successful systems, while the “unsuccessful” systems have a more jumbled process. (edited) 

Because we’ve been good and only done this for P1, we could actually come up with a quantification of this, before applying the analysis to the other Polymaths; it’s not exactly a “pre-registered” hypothesis, because we did look at the data a little, but we could certainly measure this.

Another thing to explore (and exploit :)) is the possibility that the process moves are correlated with the semantic shifts.

There’s a nice method we could use to identify “epochs” in the data — essentially parallel to the method from that old Darwin paper: scan the space of piecewise linear models for diversity over time.
```

- Income
- Pell Grant
- Past aid decision