---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-31T17:24:52-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20240130-bb-program-week-5|Week 5: Weight, Body Acceptance, and Weight Loss]]
>**Intention:** Explore body changes that might be happening, what they mean to me, and how I *want* to feel about them right now. Recommitting to the process based on that change.
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Dive deeper into how my body is feeling after 5 weeks of work.
>2. Intentionally thinking about my body less *or* in a more neutral manner.
>3. Treating my body with love, compassion, and respect.
>
>**Personal weekly goals:**
>1. Commit to *abstinence* from purging.
>2. Practice self-care by performing my full night routine each evening.
>3. Check in with friends via messages or in person each day.

> Themed journal question: 
- Think of your body or look at your body. What are all the unfiltered thoughts and feelings that come up?
- How do those thoughts and feelings influence your actions throughout the day?
- What do you want to think and feel towards your body & why?
- If you unconditionally love your body, how would you think and act towards it and its perceived flaws?
- How can you treat your body with love and respect on purpose regardless of its state?

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] Finish drafting responses for [[20231219-application-break-through-tech-ai]]
- [ ] Watch CUMMW speaker recordings
	- [ ] [[20240124-CUMMW-modeling-right-when-the-time-is-tight]]

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

## Future file

- [ ] Next steps for [[20240131-beyond-barnard-career-gps-juniors]]
- [ ] Respond to hair stylist

---
# Notes

- Woke up at 11, unfortunately; read one of the books of *Republic.*
- Spent two hours on the BTT AI application, drafted all but the last paragraph of one question
	- My brain hurts and I hate writing! When will this get easier?
- [[20240131-last-minute-mcm-tips-and-tricks]]

---
# Media log
