---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-02-13T18:47:25-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20240206-bb-program-week-6|Week 6: Making My Life Bigger Than Bulimia]]
>**Intention:** Allow my life to take up more space than the bulimia. Explore and find ways to enjoy stuff without bulimia. Slowly let bulimia die away rather than trying to rid myself of it.
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Intentionally think about recovery, food, and body *less*.
>2. Make time for something I *want* to do at least one time this week.
>
>**Weekly goals:**
>1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
>2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals?
>3. What intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

>**Goal 1:** Commit to abstinence from purging.

>**Goal 2:** Reach out to someone each day, whether over text or in person.

>**Goal 3:** Check in with the recovery group each day.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] 🌱 Clean up MCM code and upload to GitHub
- [ ] 🌱 Complete my daily recovery journal after coming home from work

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

## Future file

- [ ] 🌱 Reach out to a cognitive science alum
	- [ ] Refresh LinkedIn
	- [ ] Look into [[20240131-beyond-barnard-career-gps-juniors]] resources

---
# Notes

---
# Media log

Career Insights: Careers for Cognitive Science Majors | Barnard College | Video
- [Camille Inge](https://www.linkedin.com/in/camille-inge/) 
	- Graduated 2014, linguistics major
	- Super interesting background, would love to reach out!
	- Her work seems consulting related, teaching companies about how cogsci can improve their functioning
- [Lauren Beltrone](https://www.linkedin.com/in/laurenbeltrone/) – conversation design at Google
	- First cognitive science major
	- Speech perception lab
- What does cognitive science degree help you with?
	- Lauren – logic class
	- Camille – “Neuro Research Institute”; applying science of learning to personal development, emotional intelligence 
		- Emphasis on soft skills!