---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-11T14:00:42-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20240107-bb-program-week-2|Week 2: Identifying and Changing Patterns]]
>**Intentions:**
>- Discover what worked from new routines, as well as what challenges came from them.
>- Learn more about what eating routines work, gain more awareness around my habits, and continue making progress away from behaviors.
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Review my biggest challenge with interrupting my behavior pattern and readjust based on what worked and didn’t work.
>2. Make any adjustments needed to eating patterns.

> Weekly goals:
> 1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
> 2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

**Goal 1:** Use the pause method every time I get an urge, reminding myself that relapsing is a choice.

**Goal 2:** Spend a majority of evenings without relapsing.

**Goal 3:** Wake up at 9 a.m. at the latest each day.


> Themed journal question: 

- What are points you can pause during this pattern?
- How is eating consistently and eating enough helping you, and is there anything you need to adjust in your eating pattern?
- What thoughts and feelings encourage you to binge and purge?
- How do you want to intentionally think and act when urges come up, regardless of your initial reaction?
- If urges were a separate person, how would you speak to them?

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Make progress on CUMMW Stage 2
	- [x] Investigate relationship between Hard Mode percentage and distributions
	- [x] Look into other word attributes
	- [ ] Start gathering data for word attributes
- [ ] Reach out to Prof. Karen Lewis about interest in social media project (klewis@barnard.edu)

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [x] Tidy up my space – wash dishes, take out trash, clean bathroom

## Future file

- [ ] Make a vision board for 2024 or January
- [ ] Change jars for oil paint supplies
- [ ] Take notes on rubric from MCM judges for [[20240104-CUMMW|CUMMW]]
- [ ] Take notes on [[2009-mitchell-complexity-a-guided-tour|Complexity: A Guided Tour]]
- [ ] Ask to join recovery WhatsApp group
- [x] Begin writing up [[light-phone-diaries]]

---
# Notes

- Things to discuss with Henry:
	- Still affiliated with Palladium?
	- What have you been thinking about outside of research?
	- What is life there like? Who do you spend time with?
- Things to journal about:
	- CUMMW reflections
	- Complexity research interest
- Saved my [[application-2024-sfi-ucr]] as a permanent note, because technically it is a fruit of a lot of my current research!

---
# Media log
