---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-16T11:51:39-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20240116-bb-program-week-3|Week 3: Feeling Your Feelings]]
>**Intention:** Allow feelings with love and curiosity. Feeling them and understanding them rather than blocking and resisting them
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Familiarize myself with my feelings (journal around them to raise awareness).
>2. Practice feeling my feelings 1x per day (step, observe, describe, breathe).

> Weekly goals:
> 1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
> 2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

**Goal 1**: Practice the pause method 3x per day, whether or not I feel the urge to binge.

**Goal 2:** Perform a deliberate night routine after I am done working for the day, before I do anything else to unwind.

**Goal 3:** Each day, I will do a bit of learning or work on something unrelated to CUMMW.

> Themed journal question: 



---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] Make progress on [[20240104-CUMMW|CUMMW]] Stage 3, since I will have to have less time to write as the week goes on!
	- [ ] Finish gathering data related to training models
	- [ ] Make a plan for conducting sensitivity analysis
	- [ ] Redo difficulty clustering
- [x] Send Dad financial aid forms

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [ ] Change sheets and finish doing laundry
- [ ] Start writing for [[20231219-application-break-through-tech-ai]]
- [x] Start implementing the [[20240116-copycat-implementation]] algorithm
- [x] Shower!

## Future file

- [ ] Write a review for *The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea*

---
# Notes

---
# Media log
