---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-06-17T16:50:02-06:00
---
>[!example] Reminder
>Be the most excellent version of myself I can be, one day at a time. If I look back on today specifically, I want to be proud of what I did and who I am.

# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Reach out to other Polymath paper authors about accessing data
- [ ] Send summary email to Marina and Simon

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [ ] Look into [Hyejin Youn](https://www.kellogg.northwestern.edu/faculty/directory/youn_hyejin.aspx) research on [pathway of innovation](http://hyoun.me/research/#innovation)

## Future file



---
# Notes

#### Inspiration from scientific learning

- Social learning strategies used by scientists: data sharing, dimension sharing, explanation sharing, aligned explanation sharing, skeptical explanation sharing, teaching and learning, explanation sharing with some data sharing
	- Can we operationalize different social learning strategies in the [[Polymath projects]]?

#### Background on Hyejin Youn

- Preliminary paper thoughts for “Coordination mechanisms and costs”
	- Wikipedia to study coordination structure – something similar for Polymath project?
		- “Organizational regulatory mechanisms” incl. hierarchy, wiki, and blog
	- “Considerable interdependence = horizontal communication channels”
	- **Possible to study scaling and number of contributors? Compare to the proof of study of finite groups**
		- Scaling in mathematical collaboration – additionally **scaling costs**; would have two case studies vs. a ton more examples in Math Stack Exchange or Reddit (former would be better as they work towards a conclusive “truth,” similar to Wikipedia)
		- Any correspondence with the scaling of deductive processes themselves, in the final work? Might be able to conclude something about mathematical proofs vs. mathematical practice, explanations, implications for teaching vs. understanding
		- Working on discovery vs. what is known
		- **Something to do with phase transitions in epistemic confidence, lol**
	- Conceptual framework for coordination mechanisms

#### Polymath literature review

- TOWARD A COMPARATIVE COGNITIVE HISTORY: ARCHIMEDES AND D. H. J. POLYMATH
	- Network model of comments with statements as nodes and edges as **explicit references** between nodes – made argument graph.
		- **Possible source of data?** – Cranshaw & Kittur
	- Purpose is to compare individual (ostensibly) vs. collective intelligences
		- Main interest is also a “concrete method of comparing proofs”
	- Future directions 
		- Compare with argument graph of the proof itself
- The Polymath Project: Lessons from a Successful Online Collaboration in Mathematics
	- Significance: network model of comments, first empirical analysis on the data
		- Data on comment quantities, etc.
	- Questions raised
		- Distribution on number of comments vs. number of unique commenters? Compare with impact – how to quantify the impact of each comment?
- Internet Collaboration on Extremely Difficult Problems: Research versus Olympiad Questions on the Polymath Site
	- https://bitbucket.org/isabelmette/polymath-data – not available, reach out to authors?

#### Polymath project potential directions of investigation

- Comparative cognition – individual vs. collective
- Types of interactions – Prover-Skeptic vs. action of synthesis
- Network modeling of communal reasoning processes, closer to “reasoning processes itself” being played out – understanding communal understanding as a complex system
	- Do they also have the necessary structure for EPTs?
	- Qualitative analysis of the results across different sources
	- Structure of proof vs. structure of process of proof – discovery vs. understanding
- “Human system is complex”
	- How to consider the roles of users?
	- Role of wiki as a source of long-term memory vs. comments as a linear short-term memory

#### Email to Simon and Marina

Additional thoughts
```
Bonus: there are some other things I considered, which feel less viable/interesting.

- Using Math Stackexchange to investigate reasoning processes or collaborative activity seems difficult, since the forum is very tightly moderated -- users are expected to post comprehensive answers that minimize disagreement/discussion.
- It would be interesting to formally model how this collaboration framework could scale, as in [this paper on Wikipedia collaboration](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.02113#:~:text=What%20makes%20Individual%20I's%20a%20Collective%20We%3B%20Coordination%20mechanisms%20%26%20costs,-Jisung%20Yoon%2C%20Chris&text=Collectives%20must%20coordinate%20and%20regulate,the%20sum%20of%20individual%20abilities.) (related to the question of "why didn't this method take off?"), but I don't think there is 

  
Some other things I was thinking about before I circled back to the original general idea:

- Math Stackexchange

- Scaling

- Unsuccessful proofs -- too many confounding variables in why a proof may have failed in the set-up itself.

  

What no one has done:

Compare the comments with the final proofs/write-ups

  

- Hard to say anything about whether collective intelligence is like individual intelligence,

- Analysis at the level of individuals is something we could do, but I am more interested in if the former is possible
```

- The minipolymath and Polymath projects are functionally the same for users?
- Possibly also look at the use of the wiki:
	- Prover-Skeptic interactions
	-  Synthesis