---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-06-25T21:55:20-06:00
---
>[!example] Reminder
>Be the most excellent version of myself I can be, one day at a time. If I look back on today specifically, I want to be proud of what I did and who I am.

# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Debug web scraping – parse LaTeX
- [x] Clean comments for topic modeling
- [ ] Draft flash talk, prepare for reciting with Marina tomorrow

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today



## Future file

---
# Media log

---
# Notes

#### Debugging web scraping
- Want to parse images in general?
- Parsing LaTeX – compare across blogs

#### Meeting with Simon & Marina

- Cleaning data
	- Try without LaTeX first
		- Greedy vs. non-greedy expressions – greedy expressions will likely delete everything between first and last $ signs, rather than “between pairs of dollar signs”
	- Filter comments – add another field for `filtered-comment`
	- Get word counts – try with Python dictionary
- To standardize or not standardize?
	- [Paper to see the effects of stemming](https://direct.mit.edu/tacl/article/doi/10.1162/tacl_a_00099/43370/Comparing-Apples-to-Apple-The-Effects-of-Stemmers)
- Possible literature
	- Book – Enigma of Reason
- Flash talks
	- Get comment examples
	- Interesting preliminary results?
- Next steps
	- ~~Add dollar signs to LaTeX for easier parsing~~
	- Send original vs. “cleaned” comments before topic modeling
	- Trying up to 20 topics, see what the top x words are for each topic