---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-06-12T15:04:53-06:00
---
>[!example] Reminder
>Be the most excellent version of myself I can be, one day at a time. If I look back on today specifically, I want to be proud of what I did and who I am.

# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] Note theorem edges and begin constructing graph
- [ ] Continue literature review, particularly papers recommended by DeDeo

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [ ] Make note of all possible relations between claims on the “same” level, as well as different ones


## Future file

**Work and career**
- [ ] Familiarize myself with profiles of SFI faculty, see who to connect with
- [ ] Finish “Intro Complexity” course

**Personal**
- [ ] Start animating Ted Chiang’s “Exhalation”
- [ ] Look into or note the following concepts:
	- [ ] Multi-cellular life as a “charismatic center”
	- [ ] Semantic drift
	- [ ] Chiang’s slide about “extrapolation using poetic license”
	- [ ] Assembly theory in biology
- [ ] Import notes for the following concepts:
	- [ ] Continuum of democracy
	- [ ] Gathering insights from modeling research application, currently in Overleaf

---
# Notes

#### Overall Polymath thoughts

- Final version prepared vs. proof as it was published?
- A LOT of exposition to unpack (include remarks – why was certain remark deemed necessary?)
- Multiple citations vs. *unique* citations?
- Different types of proofs – induction, contradiction (can do a document search for this, plus “assume”)
- Coloring by sections vs. modularity algorithm – investigate how presentation differs?
- What if can get machine-assisted version?

#### Encoding claims

- Pages of note
	- What about if the proposition itself is that “claim follows from another claim”? – P1.7
	- 1297 – “Probabilistic version is FALSE” – why include this in the paper?
	- Section 4 and 5 are “sketched” arguments – a “translation” between them is offered in exposition
	- C6.7 and T3.7 – different formalizations of same idea
	- 1322 – is the direct connection from DHJ to PDHJ implied in reasoning?
- Start denoting definitions, places of interest to see what commenters say
- Colors
	- Yellow = theorem statements
	- Purple = definitions
	- Red = unnumbered or implicit theorems, other areas of note
	- New color for places to look into for comments?

11:01 AM
- Need to go back and start tracking assumptions in lemma statements
- “Assumptions” might not want to be included, or included as weaker links
	- Assuming something like a bound is simply a condition for a proof to “go through”
	- On the other hand, assuming **shared conditions** between claims might help reason between the two
- Proof “cases” breakdown?
- Theorems that must be taken together?

#### Network graphs in Python

- Account for weight by showing number of times it was referenced