---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-06-08T09:52:10-06:00
---
>[!example] Reminder
>Be the most excellent version of myself I can be, one day at a time. If I look back on today specifically, I want to be proud of what I did and who I am.

# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Email James about multi-agent stochastic modeling project
- [ ] Look for ways to contact Simon DeDeo (or anyone familiar with similar work)

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [ ] Look over SFI faculty list and make note of relevant figures, review their work
- [ ] Architecture studio application survey
- [x] Look over SFI upcoming schedule

## Future file

**Work and career**
- [ ] Reach out to Tony/Anna/Marina about reading recommendations/group
	- [ ] Follow up with Tony about “semantic drift” book, aesthetics of mathematics
	- [ ] Ask Anna about ideas in history of mathematics
- [ ] Familiarize myself with profiles of SFI faculty, see who to connect with
- [ ] Look at citations and references of key papers

**Personal**
- [ ] Start animating Ted Chiang’s “Exhalation”
- [ ] Look into or note the following concepts:
	- [ ] Multi-cellular life as a “charismatic center”
	- [ ] Semantic drift
	- [ ] Chiang’s slide about “extrapolation using poetic license”
	- [ ] Assembly theory in biology
	- [ ] Mathematical universe hypothesis
- [ ] Import notes for the following concepts:
	- [ ] Continuum of democracy
	- [ ] Gathering insights from modeling research application, currently in Overleaf
- [ ] Start literature note on *Straw Dogs*

**Readings**
- [ ] Relevant links from “Just ML” community lecture

---
# Notes

#### Potential research directions extracted from papers

- [[2-SOMEDAY/2023-wolpert-kinney-stochastic-model-of-math-and-science]]
	- Distinction between norms of math and norms of science under SMS framework
	- Results for multiple scientist-SMS embedded in the same universe-SMS, extension to a “scientific community”
	- Structure generation through question-answer process, after the **mathematical universe hypothesis** (the universe is a mathematical object, all mathematical objects exist) and **ontic structural realism** (structure is all there is)
	- Formalizing other aspects of scientific reasoning in the framework, including modeling phenomena that is not explicitly observable (does MD have an “unobservable” ground truth?) and theory-driven interpretations of outputs
	- Overlap between social dynamics of scientific inquiry (formalized in agent-based models) and SMS model
- [[2023-viteri-dedeo-epistemic-phase-transitions]]

#### Project ideas

- Using cognitive model enabling EPT to analyze explicitly social proofs, where the “community” is the agent
	- Research question: is it valid to analyze the community as a single reasoning agent? What are the qualitative differences between proof networks produced by individuals vs. produced by community?
	- Quantifiable question: Do machine aided proofs share the same epistemic properties as “community proofs”?
		- C.f. relationship to individual proofs
	- Is this even well defined, if the human proofs chosen were from textbooks and already subject to refinement by mathematical community?
		- Able to look at different versions of the same proof? **Before and after refinement?**
		- Possible alternative: **gather data on attempts to answer the same elementary proof, then compare to textbook or community sourced answers.** 
- Including stochasticity via the SMS framework in the MD’s multi-agent experimentation model
	- Observations are defined differently in both; W&K focus on perception. 
	- W&K define **calibration** as a normative constraint on how the SMS should make claims; is this analogous to the different approaches to experimentation that MD investigates?

#### Questions for mentor meetings

- Marina
	- In multi-agent model, is all ground truth assumed to be explicitly observable (i.e., has data for all phenomena)? Would there be a difference if there were not?
	- Theory-laden observations vs. theory-driven experimentation are functionally the same?
