---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-02-16T10:40:38-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] Weekly goals
>1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
>2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals?
>3. What intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

>**Goal 1:** Commit to abstinence from purging.

>**Goal 2:** Reach out to someone each day, whether over text or in person.

>**Goal 3:** Check in with the recovery group each day.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] 🌱 Continue literature review to gather ideas for [[20240214-csuremm-project-proposal]]
	- [x]  Skim Lindsay’s “Models of the Mind”

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [x] Get canvas for final class painting, no larger than 24x18 in
- [x] Find corresponding math classes at UW, ask about registrar approval for transfer credits

## Future file


---
# Notes

- Starting a note on [[researchers]] to keep track of labs that I am interested in.
	- I am manifesting a Ph.D. student position with these. I am going to remain delusional about it.
- Some fleeting notes on “Models of the Mind”
	- How Rewards Guide Actions – Temporal Difference and Reinforcement Learning
		- Sequential decision making = state positions, step actions
		- Dopamine, addiction in a RL framework
	- Grand Unified Theories of the Brain
- Added spring break trip to Spring overview in [[2024]]

[[2024-02-14]]

- UW possible spring semester courses
	- [Introduction to Differential Equations](https://myplan.uw.edu/course/#/courses/MATH%20207?states=N4Ig7gDgziBcLADrgJYDsAmB7MAJApigOYAWALsrAEwAMA7AMwA0yY62YACllCmSljSVaAVgB0DSQyoAOKgBY69GgwC%2BIVUA) – c.f. [Ordinary Differential Equations](https://doc.sis.columbia.edu/#subj/MATH/V2030-20241-001/)
		- [UW course syllabus](https://sites.math.washington.edu/~aloveles/Math207Materials/syllabus.pdf) vs. [Columbia course syllabus](https://math.columbia.edu/~samdehority/files/2021-summer-ODEs/syllabus.pdf)– both use the Boyce, et al. text
	- Real analysis and algebra classes are too rudimentary to count for credit; look into computer science, applied math, statistics?
- Rabbit hole: [NeurIPS Intrinsically Motivated Open-ended Learning Workshop](https://nips.cc/virtual/2023/workshop/66534)

---
# Media log
