---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-30T18:16:34-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] Week 4: Shifting My Identity and Mindset
>**Intention:** Clearly define who I am now, who I want to become, and discover how I can embody that future self now.
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Use the “Themed Journal Questions” to identify who I am currently, who I want to be, and how I can bridge that gap.
>2. Practice being the recovered me *now*.

> Weekly goals:
> 1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
> 2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

**Goal 1**: Commit to *abstinence* from purging.
1. I think this is the only way I can break the cycle. I have relapsed for the past few nights, and I am absolutely exhausted and so guilty about the time I have wasted. I feel so hopeless when I am in a cycle like this, and I want to feel happy about the future.
2. **Action items:**
	1. Continuously remind myself that purging is not an option, even if I have permission to binge.
	2. Be intentional about my eating schedule: I will have my meal in the evening, close enough to bed time that I don’t feel hungry when trying to sleep.
	3. *Pause* and accept the urge when it comes. Remind myself that the only thing I need to do is not purge.
3. **Thoughts:**
	1. Purging is counterintuitive; whatever discomfort I am trying to escape by purging, it will only feel worse afterward.

**Goal 2:** Perform a deliberate night routine after I am done working for the day, before I do anything else to unwind.
1. This is still the step missing in my routine that carries me over to the next day.
2. **Action items:**
	1. I will be deliberate about when I wrap up work.
	2. I will be productive earlier in the day, so that I do not feel the need to make up for lost time.
3. **Thoughts:**
	1. I am ready to curl up in bed with a good book after I finish my routine! That time is such a reward.
	2. Similarly, I should finish my work earlier in the day rather than dragging it on. That way, I can fully relax in the evening.

**Goal 3:** Each day, I will do a bit of learning or work on something unrelated to CUMMW.

>Themed journal question: Think about the future recovered you. Who are they, how do they think, and how do they behave? (there can be overlap between who you are right now and who you want to be)

I am exactly who I am in [[Dream self script]]:
- I am not preoccupied with thoughts about food. I am confident in my eating patterns.
- I am frequently and lightly active.
- I have incredible intellectual scope. I know enough about everything to hold a conversation and learn more from it.
- I always have a project of subject that I am passionate about.
- I wake up early in the morning and sleep early at night.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] Draft answers for [[20231219-application-break-through-tech-ai]]
- [ ] Finish up Stage 3 of [[20240104-CUMMW|CUMMW]]

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [ ] Watch recording of CUMMW speaker call from last Thursday
- [x] Tidy up my space – clean bathroom, wash dishes, pick up laundry
- [ ] Read another cognitive science source, to be turned into a literature note later

## Future file

- [ ] Add to notes on [[2009-mitchell-complexity-a-guided-tour|Complexity: A Guided Tour]]

---
# Notes

- Starting off by making more literature notes to get myself back into understanding research!
	- [[2023-ramstead-the-free-energy-principle-a-precis]]
	- Also updated all my permanent notes to have creation dates.
- Break Through Tech AI drafts: [[20240118-braindump-break-through-tech-ai]]



- Took notes on CUMMW meeting: [[20240124-CUMMW-modeling-right-when-the-time-is-tight]]

---
# Media log

[Scaling AI the Human Way](https://youtube.com/watch?v=gzaIrD3jki8&si=Yw60yDAjp_QcHaG1) | [[Tenenbaum, Josh|Josh Tenenbaum]] | Video
- Scaling AI the human way
	- Developmental: can we build machines that learn like human children?
	- Can we build machines that learn from culture the way humans do?
- Language skills build on more intrinsic human abilities
- Tenenbaum’s view/Bayesian approach to cognitive science: cognition as probabilistic modeling and inference
	- Most successful math/computational framework
	- Example: probabilistic simulation in human intuitive physics; physics-based prediction models align with human behavior
	- Example: intuitive physics in 12 month olds; same thing, quantitative model can predict baby looking times
- Understanding is a kind of deeper meta-knowledge