---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-06-10T16:44:02-06:00
---
>[!example] Reminder
>Be the most excellent version of myself I can be, one day at a time. If I look back on today specifically, I want to be proud of what I did and who I am.

# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] Prepare for meeting with James and Andrew
- [ ] Closer reading and literature note for [[2023-viteri-dedeo-epistemic-phase-transitions]]

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today



## Future file

**Work and career**
- [ ] Reach out to Tony/Anna/Marina about reading recommendations/group
	- [ ] Follow up with Tony about “semantic drift” book, aesthetics of mathematics
	- [ ] Ask Anna about ideas in history of mathematics
- [ ] Familiarize myself with profiles of SFI faculty, see who to connect with

**Personal**
- [ ] Start animating Ted Chiang’s “Exhalation”
- [ ] Look into or note the following concepts:
	- [ ] Multi-cellular life as a “charismatic center”
	- [ ] Semantic drift
	- [ ] Chiang’s slide about “extrapolation using poetic license”
	- [ ] Assembly theory in biology
	- [ ] Mathematical universe hypothesis
- [ ] Import notes for the following concepts:
	- [ ] Continuum of democracy
	- [ ] Gathering insights from modeling research application, currently in Overleaf

**Readings**
- [ ] Relevant links from “Just ML” community lecture
- [ ] Charles Ginzburg, “To Kill a Chinese Man”

---
# Notes

#### Course registration

- Deciding between physics (4.5) and architecture (3) classes
	- Currently not registering for physics, since architecture studio has limited space and is therefore more precious, need to be able to enroll after getting off waitlist
	- Upon reflection, for my purposes, I don’t really need a formal minor – perhaps accelerated physics is the way? Would it look bad to P/F if I plan to pursue further studies? Probably won’t anyway – just aid my research.
	- IF I do take physics, I wouldn’t do the architecture class at all and just focus on getting distribution requirements in
- Eventually, may want to reconsider cognitive science electives, and whether I want to take machine learning at all

|              | Pros                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Cons                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Physics      | - Minor is useful for my future career goals and interest in complex systems<br>- Offers concrete evidence of my proficiency in the topic <br>- Potential for a letter of recommendation from a relevant field <br>- If I want a degree in physics in the future, will have to master the topics | - If really boring, hard to stay engaged <br>- Professors seem terrible                                                                                                                  |
| Architecture | - Unique approach to embodiment theory and possibly singular perspective in cognitive science<br>- Different intellectual task for my mind, taps into creativity that fuels overall zest for life <br>- Inform my aesthetic tastes for the rest of my life                                       | - Might be frustrated with lack of formalism <br>- Could get same knowledge and inspiration from reading <br> - Practice could be performed at any other time, like a later career pivot |


#### Meeting with Marina

- Broad overview of the SMS model
```
I dug a little bit through the formal definitions in the SMS model yesterday, and this is my loose understanding of the technical details: claims/propositions about the world are represented by question-answer pairs. The model itself is a probability space of all finite ordered sequences (i.e., vectors) of these claims, and generates a set of unordered claims at each iterative step. In particular, we care about the _response distribution_, which is the distribution over possible answers generated by the SMS for a fixed question and step.
```

#### Epistemic phase transitions paper

- Discuss with James
	- Each node in the graph has a binary truth value – sort of related to work on discrete binary choice? Not sure if “evolution of a proof” is something that relates to change over time, especially as topology itself is also assumed to change
	- Phase transitions in rule formation vs. math vs. “paradigm shifts” in science? Probably not analagous.
- Collaborative mathematical proof efforts vs. refinement over time
- What kind of question to ask?
	- How does network topology and differences change over time, or over different proof directions?

#### Belief-formation networks for individuals vs. collectives

- Forming question by available data?
	- Should I care about distribution across space and time?
	- Want to capture changes between individual and collective
- Papers to look into on collaboration to mathematics practice:
	- Pease et al. 2020 – Survey of online mathematics for studying practice
	- Martin 2015 – Polymath
	- List of long mathematical proofs
	- Classification of finite simple groups – first and second generations
	- Data from mathematics education?
- Potential concise definitions
	- Comparing belief networks—amount of reuse, in and outdegree distribution, epistemic phase transitions and strengths, **deductive and abductive reasoning patterns**—across time scales in proof refinement
		- Representations for individual vs. collective reasoning, collective as a single agent?

#### Meeting with DeDeo

- What information does the network include? Is it a *process* of reasoning? **What about the meta-process of how the process of reasoning changes?**