---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-17T08:38:51-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20240116-bb-program-week-3|Week 3: Feeling Your Feelings]]
>**Intention:** Allow feelings with love and curiosity. Feeling them and understanding them rather than blocking and resisting them
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Familiarize myself with my feelings (journal around them to raise awareness).
>2. Practice feeling my feelings 1x per day (step, observe, describe, breathe).

> Weekly goals:
> 1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
> 2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

**Goal 1**: Practice the pause method 3x per day, whether or not I feel the urge to binge.
1. The most important step in my recovery right now is *intention*—intention to recover overall, but also moment-by-moment with my decisions. I’ve been slowing down for the past two days and really being deliberate with each of my actions, pausing (though maybe not *pausing*) whenever I feel unable to commit to a single decision, and I think it shows. I spent two nights in a row without relapsing, which is usually difficult for me to achieve! I don’t want to have any expectations for what happens next, but recognize that I like the feeling of slowing down.
2. **Action items:**
	1. Name any discomfort I feel instead of trying to suppress it. Once I do so, I can recognize that this is a good place to pause.
	2. Pause whenever I am positively engaged in a task as well! This will help me make it a more regular habit, and also prevent burning out from overworking in a short spurt of time.
3. **Intentional thoughts:**
	1. Pausing is not a prescription for any other action. I don’t have to commit to anything but the pause.
	2. Although leaning into the discomfort associated with a pause is hard for me at first, I will feel better after having done it, and letting some of that feeling wash over me instead of building up.

**Goal 2:** Perform a deliberate night routine after I am done working for the day, before I do anything else to unwind.
1. Usually I binge because I am procrastinating on getting ready to go to sleep. I’m not sure whether it’s the act of putting everything away for the day that seems like too much, or the fear of not being able to fall asleep. Either way, it needs to stop.
2. **Action items:**
	1. This is straightforward: just do the night routine!
	2. I will take a walk to clear my head/digest my dinner, shut off all electronics for good for the evening, do any remaining self grooming tasks, and settle in bed with a good book.
3. **Intentional thoughts:**
	1. Like with the pause, I have no expectations about what I do after. I just want to make the steps themselves familiar, and eventually habitual.


**Goal 3:** Each day, I will do a bit of learning or work on something unrelated to CUMMW.
1. This helps me avoid putting all my eggs in one basket, so to speak, and hinging my entire perception on one thing. This will also help me not feel existentially burnt out when my interest in that one thing is not as intense anymore!
2. **Action items:**
	1. I already did this today by reading [[1977-alexander-a-pattern-language]]!
	2. I can also make a bit of progress on [[20240116-copycat-implementation]].
3. **Intentional thoughts:**
	1. In diversifying my interests and tasks, I make my world richer.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] Make progress writing for CUMMW

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [x] Start taking notes on [[1977-alexander-a-pattern-language]]
- [x] Write a review for [[2023-eilenberger-the-visionaries]]
- [x] Complete daily recovery journal with intention!

## Future file

---
# Notes

---
# Media log

A Pattern Language | Christopher W. Alexander | Book
- A new topic to me—architecture, urban studies, human geography?
- The main premise is that building anything depends on a networked “language,” where spatially and culturally expansive structures are created from simple components, the most basic of which is construction.
- Written in 1977, and it shows, especially w.r.t. situating work/life and domestic structures. Social fabric is very different today! 
	- I wonder what the authors would make of work-from-home? Probably a bastardization of their “scattered work” idea; drives people further into isolation by imprisoning themselves with work.
	- How to respond to the physical workplace as the final “third place” for many people?
- I think it is well-researched and respect the idealism; however, I don’t have the knowledge to judge how useful it is!
- Some problematic assumptions:
	- The basis of community is home ownership.