---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-06-14T14:51:29-06:00
---
>[!example] Reminder
>Be the most excellent version of myself I can be, one day at a time. If I look back on today specifically, I want to be proud of what I did and who I am.

# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?



----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today


## Future file

**Work and career**
- [ ] Familiarize myself with profiles of SFI faculty, see who to connect with
- [ ] Finish “Intro Complexity” course
- [ ] Reach out to Mirta Galesic

**Personal**
- [ ] Start animating Ted Chiang’s “Exhalation”
- [ ] Look into or note the following concepts:
	- [ ] Multi-cellular life as a “charismatic center”
	- [ ] Chiang’s slide about “extrapolation using poetic license”
	- [ ] Assembly theory in biology
	- [ ] Bali calendar and music
- [ ] Import notes for the following concepts:
	- [ ] Continuum of democracy
	- [ ] Gathering insights from modeling research application, currently in Overleaf
- [ ] Start playing around with glitches

---
# Notes

#### Project meeting

- Continue literature review 
	- Theory to support potential taxonomies
- Reading blog posts and comments
	- Using meta-posts as a source of hypotheses
- *General* future directions
	- Comparing failed vs. successful paper efforts at a broader level – what can we say about group dynamics?
	- How does crowdsourced mathematics compare to individual practice? *Are there differences between individual and collective intelligence*?
	- Difference between online collaboration and in-person dialogue?
	- *Why did the Polymath project ultimately fail to change mathematical practice?*

#### Blog and wiki review

- How to approach use of the wiki itself?

#### Literature review

- *Dialogical Roots of Deduction*
	- Collaborative mathematics – Bourbaki group in France, classification of finite simple groups
