---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-06-07T09:44:03-06:00
---
>[!example] Reminder
>Be the most excellent version of myself I can be, one day at a time. If I look back on today specifically, I want to be proud of what I did and who I am.

# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] Literature review for SFI projects, with focus on papers from SFI faculty

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [ ] Thank CSC interviewers

## Future file

**Work and career**
- [ ] Look over SFI faculty list and make note of relevant figures
- [x] Review MM’s interests
- [ ] Review Tatyana Sharpee’s work in hyperbolic geometry ✖
- [ ] Reach out to Tony/Anna/Marina about reading recommendations/group
	- [ ] Follow up with Tony about “semantic drift” book
- [x] Look at citations and references of key papers

**Personal**
- [ ] Start animating Ted Chiang’s “Exhalation”
- [ ] Make new Obsidian notes for the following concepts:
	- [ ] Multi-cellular life as a “charismatic center”
	- [ ] Semantic drift
	- [ ] Chiang’s slide about “extrapolation using poetic license”
- [ ] Import notes for the following concepts:
	- [ ] Continuum of democracy
- [ ] Start literature note on *Straw Dogs*

**Readings**
- [ ] Relevant links from “Just ML” community lecture

---
# Notes

#### Math epistemology project

- Research questions
	- How does an individual, then a group, come to believe in a proof?
- Goals
	- MD: show that random experimentation is better by giving agents two epistemic goals while varying approaches (all operationalized with justification)
		- Experimentation and social learning strategies were all varied
		- Evaluated by how well the ground truth and data can be reproduced by model’s explanation
	- Mine: 
		- Most similar to MD: give each agent the goal of “understanding” or believing the proof—how to operationalize? Reach the end of the network model from DiDeo+? Require the leveraging of different aspects of cognition. Eventually, implement social learning strategies to see which best model the description of Thurston’s mathematical communication. Hope is to find strategies that will capture potential improvements in social learning.
			- What does it mean to believe or understand? Are these the same?
			- Might have to dig into pedagogical literature
			- Collective belief?

#### “Epistemic phase transitions in mathematical proofs”

- “Belief formation”
- Model requirements
	- Degree of belief depends only on claims that deductively support it
	- Model is unconstrained in potential belief patterns
- Model features – captures “heuristics” and not formal deduction
	- Includes abductive direction
	- Allows deductive evidence to “accumulate”
- Model predictions
- References to investigate
	- “Tinkering” – https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/10.1098/rstb.2019.0325
	- Coherence theories of belief formation – https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1090866
	- Broad justification via abstract reason-giving – https://www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctv2sp3dd8
	- Sociology of math – https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/0306312712436547
	- Social knowledge production in math – https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/episteme/article/abs/group-knowledge-and-mathematical-collaboration-a-philosophical-examination-of-the-classification-of-finite-simple-groups/4A97A35CE68060F330589853E3F8F3A1
	- Using examples to aid certainty in students – https://pubs.nctm.org/view/journals/jrme/53/1/article-p65.xml
	- Fallibilist account of mathematics – https://academic.oup.com/pq/article-abstract/71/4/pqaa076/6031956?redirectedFrom=fulltext&login=true