---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-04T15:09:38-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20231231-bb-program-week-1|Week 1: Hit the Ground Running]]
>**Intention:** Establish new baseline eating and behavior habit patterns. Remove any stimulus that’s not helpful and create the optimal recovery environment within the life I already live.
>
>**Call theme:** Building Your Recovery Protocol + Group Coaching
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Define and practice a recovery protocol daily.
>2. Pick eating habits (how to eat enough and consistently) and stick to it as much as possible.
>3. Increase friction between myself and binging.
>4. Clean up environmental triggers (scale, social media, pause diet content, put away triggering items).

> Weekly goals:
> 1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
> 2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

**Goal 1:** Use the *pause* method every time I get urges this week.
1. Tomorrow is a group check-in, and I want to be able to say something about my experience.
2. **Action items:** *Pause* on my way home from work. Before doing anything else, drive home and get ready for bed, clean up my space.
3. **Intentional thoughts:** Reflect on all the things coming up that I can look forward to! The modeling workshop and competition (want to show up the best I can for my teammates, this is an amazing skill/career development opportunity); art classes; even reading that night.

**Goal 2:** Wake up at or before 9:00 AM each day, again.
1. I need to be up tomorrow to be ready for my group coaching call!
2. **Action items:** Set alarm for 8 AM. After getting home from work, wind down and read in bed.

**Goal 3:** Draft all my essay responses for [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]].


---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] Prepare for first meeting with CUMMW group 
	- [x] Look over MCM past questions
	- [x] Add workshop deadlines and competition dates to calendar
	- [ ] Read over judges’ comments on problems of interest
- [x] Email about dropping course

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [ ] Tidy up my space – take out trash, pick up items around room and bathroom

## Future file

- [ ] Make a small coding project to put on application resume
	- [ ] Make a basic [Markov chain model](https://builtin.com/machine-learning/markov-chain)
	- [ ] Play with GFlowNet model, empowerment
	- [ ] Make Hodgkin-Huxley Colab app
	- [ ] Make a Python implementation of Copycat
- [ ] Watch/listen to interviews about *Thinking Fast and Slow*


---
# Notes

- Went to UW class, content (and people) seem too simple. On the plus side, Bulldog News might be a nice place for me to just hang out and do work in the future!
- Registering for CUMMW, joined a team.

---
# Media log
