---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-01-03T11:17:13-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] [[20231231-bb-program-week-1|Week 1: Hit the Ground Running]]
>**Intention:** Establish new baseline eating and behavior habit patterns. Remove any stimulus that’s not helpful and create the optimal recovery environment within the life I already live.
>
>**Call theme:** Building Your Recovery Protocol + Group Coaching
>
>**Goals and objectives:**
>1. Define and practice a recovery protocol daily.
>2. Pick eating habits (how to eat enough and consistently) and stick to it as much as possible.
>3. Increase friction between myself and binging.
>4. Clean up environmental triggers (scale, social media, pause diet content, put away triggering items).

> Weekly goals:
> 1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
> 2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals, and what intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

**Goal 1:** Be relapse-free for the majority of the days in the week.
1. This is the only way toward recovery—not purging. I relapsed last night, and looking back on it now, the binge and purge ritual is nothing but a void that is detracting from the rest of my life. It brings me no hedonistic pleasure at all—the food doesn’t taste good because it is sickeningly sweet, I am in physical pain, I don’t care at all about the social medias I’m “allowing” myself to scroll because I’ve been finding reading and learning so much more meaningful. Also, today my group coaching starts, so it’s time to get serious about my recovery.
2. **Action items:** 
	1. Show up to group coaching and participate to my full ability.
	2. Use the pause method whenever an urge arises, and journal about my feelings.
	3. Make a meal schedule ahead of time to plan my eating. When I do eat, eat mindfully and pause between bites, even setting my utensils down if I need to.
	4. Do not get drunk. Drink only enough to be sober within the hour (1-2 drinks per hour).
3. **Thoughts:**
	1. Commit to abstaining from purging for today, so that I also cannot binge.
	2. Remember that the only way forward is through—for the urges, for the physical changes, everything. Remember how much a void bulimia is, and how I would rather live my life than repeat last night.

**Goal 2:** Wake up at or before 9:00 AM each day, again.
1. Today I did not meet this goal, and although I don’t feel defeated, I feel the pressure of having less time in my day. I feel a little more desperate, a little more scarcity.
2. **Action items:**
	1. Reset my alarms for 8 and 9 AM (done).
	2. Wind down for bed at a reasonable hour. Go through my full night routine, take my supplements before doing *anything* else.
	3. Reward myself for the previous by reading a book.
3. **Thoughts:**
	1. I don’t need to stay up late to make up for missed time earlier in the day. There will be more time tomorrow, and it will be the same effect to just wake up earlier (better, because I’m back on track with sleep).

**Goal 3:** Draft all my essay responses for [[20231221-application-santa-fe-institute-undergraduate-research]].
1. The deadline is approaching and the anxiety is making sticking to my other goals harder. I need to learn how to manage pressure again without letting it be an excuse to use coping mechanisms. This is an exercise in me learning to be a person again.
2. **Action items:** See daily goals.
3. **Thoughts:**
	1. Be patient, not frustrated. Have gentle focus.
	2. Write what you can and revise later. It doesn’t have to be perfect now, but there needs to be words on the page.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [x] Plan route to and from restaurant for dinner

----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [x] Clean up room – laundry, dishes, garbage
- [x] Begin watching recovery course videos
- [x] Notes on Spelke talk: [[2019-spelke-from-core-concepts-to-new-systems-of-knowledge]]
- [x] Edit Julia’s application

## Future file

[[2023-12-31]]
- [ ] Make a small coding project to put on application resume
	- [ ] Make a basic [Markov chain model](https://builtin.com/machine-learning/markov-chain)
	- [ ] Play with GFlowNet model, empowerment
	- [ ] Make Hodgkin-Huxley Colab app
- [ ] Watch/listen to interviews about *Thinking Fast and Slow*

---
# Notes

- Copycat implementation
- (https://github.com/Paul-G2/copycat-js)
- 


---
# Media log

How to Recover | BB Recovery Program | Video
- What are my current beliefs about my recovery?
- What are the results of those beliefs?
- What intentional beliefs can I have to help my recovery?