---
tags:
  - daily-note
lastmod: 2024-02-13T20:22:38-08:00
---
# Daily journal

>[!example] Weekly goals
>1. Why are my weekly goals important me to *today*?
>2. How do I need to show up *today* to achieve these goals? What action items will help me move towards my goals?
>3. What intentional thoughts will help me get those items done?

>**Goal 1:** Commit to abstinence from purging.

>**Goal 2:** Reach out to someone each day, whether over text or in person.

>**Goal 3:** Check in with the recovery group each day.

---
# To do

> What are the top three *most important* things I need to do today?

- [ ] 🌱 Complete my daily recovery journal – recommit myself to recovery
----
# Menu

> What other things can I do today that are less important?
## Today

- [x] Self care day – hair dye, shower, pick up laundry and clean up my space
- [x] Reach out to financial aid counselor


## Future file

- [ ] 🌱 Reach out to a cognitive science alum
	- [ ] Update my LinkedIn profile with a bio
	- [ ] Look into [[20240131-beyond-barnard-career-gps-juniors]] resources
- [ ] Schedule piercing jewelry change appointment
- [ ] Think about final class painting
- [ ] Get canvas for final class painting, no larger than 24x18 in
- [ ] Make literature note on *Existentialism is a Humanism*

---
# Notes

- A response to this poor antisocial fellow on Discord:
```

Perhaps my reading of your Google Doc isn’t as close as it could be but here are some preliminary responses:
- Don’t drink alcohol before the meeting unless you plan on drinking before all your social interactions thereafter. Maybe that’s just my personal skill issue, though. 
- The reason you are not converting acquaintances into friends is not because you are not interesting or fun enough; in fact, I’d argue that friendships on that basis turn out to be very limited and situational. I cannot think of any time that I befriended someone, or wanted to befriend someone, because they enthralled me in a single conversation. It was more that I saw them around and developed enough familiarity to have a stake in how their life was going, the cumulative effect of small interactions over a period of time… yes, this is also situational at first. 
- Boring questions can certainly be a kind of intellectual “vibe check.” But if you do feel that you’re failing spectacularly in just one interaction, it sounds like an actual sustained friendship with that person would be pretty intolerable.
- For tonight, why not let creative writing be the go-to conversation topic? Shared hobbies being the golden standard for developing friendships or whatever. If I had actual hobbies last year instead of getting to know the other people smoking outside the library as my only form of social interaction, I would have saved myself a lot of cash and lung capacity.
- I guess I just don’t think that this is something you can “fail” in one shot. At risk of sounding really cringe, something will come out of it if you just continue to physically show up to things (I have had extremely annoying people fix themselves in my extended social circles this way); the only way to fail is to not try at all. 
```
- Spent an hour thinking and preparing for a quant internship – I think I need to let go of this pressure, same with software engineering internships.
	- I can’t tell if it’s maturity or immaturity that I can’t take the “practical” route out to a solid career or income.
	- I need to commit myself to one thing I’m interested in, and *do* more of it than what I currently am. What have I done recently that I like *doing*?
		- Some coding engineering challenges
		- Expository writing
		- Painting, I guess
		- Reading and taking notes on things
	- What do I want to try *doing* more for the next bit of time?
		- Practice and learn math
- Recovery group call notes:
	- A thought on body image: feeling dissatisfied no matter what?
- I just feel so depressed. There’s absolutely nothing really that I enjoy doing, I think. I’ve been looking at ML engineering projects and I simply don’t want to do any of them, even though I would love to make the money. How can I go out in the world and do something that matters while having a stable income?
- I have 3.5 months left of my “gap year.” How do I make the most of this experience?
	- Establish a good foundation for my physical and mental health
	- Study for quant interviews (even if I feel bad about probably not being able to get past the resume screening)
	- Study for the math classes I plan to take so that I don’t feel overwhelmed during the school year—I want to be able to maximize my time doing everything else!
	- Read a bunch of papers to gather knowledge about the fields I want to work in, connect with researchers
	- Once I’m back in school, dial down and focus on how to make myself a successful Ph.D. applicant. I want to dedicate 100% of myself to getting into graduate school!
	- Establish basic life skills like managing my personal finance

---
# Media log
